# SALTSTACK CODE OWNERS

# See https://help.github.com/articles/about-codeowners/
# for more info about CODEOWNERS file

# Lines starting with '#' are comments.
# Each line is a file pattern followed by one or more owners.

# See https://help.github.com/articles/about-codeowners/
# for more info about the CODEOWNERS file

# This file uses an fnmatch-style matching pattern.

# Team Boto
salt/**/*boto*                      @saltstack/team-boto

# Team Core
salt/auth/*                         @saltstack/team-core
salt/cache/*                        @saltstack/team-core
salt/cli/*                          @saltstack/team-core
salt/client/*                       @saltstack/team-core
salt/config/*                       @saltstack/team-core
salt/daemons/*                      @saltstack/team-core
salt/pillar/*                       @saltstack/team-core
salt/loader.py                      @saltstack/team-core
salt/payload.py                     @saltstack/team-core
salt/**/master*                     @saltstack/team-core
salt/**/minion*                     @saltstack/team-core

# Team Cloud
salt/cloud/*                        @saltstack/team-cloud
salt/utils/openstack/*              @saltstack/team-cloud
salt/utils/aws.py                   @saltstack/team-cloud
salt/**/*cloud*                     @saltstack/team-cloud

# Team NetAPI
salt/cli/api.py                     @saltstack/team-netapi
salt/client/netapi.py               @saltstack/team-netapi
salt/netapi/*                       @saltstack/team-netapi

# Team Network
salt/proxy/*                        @saltstack/team-proxy

# Team SPM
salt/cli/spm.py                     @saltstack/team-spm
salt/spm/*                          @saltstack/team-spm

# Team SSH
salt/cli/ssh.py                     @saltstack/team-ssh
salt/client/ssh/*                   @saltstack/team-ssh
salt/runners/ssh.py                 @saltstack/team-ssh
salt/**/thin.py                     @saltstack/team-ssh

# Team State
salt/state.py                       @saltstack/team-state

# Team SUSE
salt/**/*btrfs*                     @saltstack/team-suse
salt/**/*kubernetes*                @saltstack/team-suse
salt/**/*pkg*                       @saltstack/team-suse
salt/**/*snapper*                   @saltstack/team-suse
salt/**/*xfs*                       @saltstack/team-suse
salt/**/*zypper*                    @saltstack/team-suse

# Team Transport
salt/transport/*                    @saltstack/team-transport
salt/utils/zeromq.py                @saltstack/team-transport

# Team Windows
salt/*/*win*                        @saltstack/team-windows
salt/modules/reg.py                 @saltstack/team-windows
salt/states/reg.py                  @saltstack/team-windows
tests/*/*win*                       @saltstack/team-windows
tests/*/test_reg.py                 @saltstack/team-windows
