.. _security-threat-model:

==============================
Salt security and threat model
==============================

This page documents the trust boundaries inside a Salt installation,
the assumptions Salt makes about each boundary, and what the operator
is responsible for. It is written for site operators who need to know
*what Salt protects, what it does not protect, and what they have to
do.*

.. important::

    The content here is **operational guidance**, not a security
    audit. It describes what the released code does today. For
    reporting a security vulnerability, see :ref:`disclosure`. For a
    list of past CVEs, see :ref:`saltstack_security_announcements`.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2


Trust boundaries
================

A Salt install has four trust boundaries. The crossings are listed
here; each subsequent section explains what crosses each one.

1. **Minion → master.** A minion publishes auth requests, job
   returns, mine data, and event signals. The master authenticates
   the minion by public key.
2. **Master → minion.** The master publishes jobs and pillar data.
   The minion authenticates the master by public key.
3. **Outside user → master.** A user authenticates to the master
   either as a local OS user (publisher ACL) or via an external auth
   driver (eauth: PAM, LDAP, REST, ...). The result is an
   authorization list.
4. **Master → external source.** The master pulls rendered pillar
   data, file_server data, returner state, and SDB secrets from
   external systems. Salt is a *client* of these systems and the
   external system enforces its own authentication.


Minion ↔ master cryptographic channel
=====================================

Wire protocol
-------------

Both ports use the configured transport (zeromq by default, or tcp).
The four-byte length prefix and ``msgpack`` payload are not in
themselves authenticated; the payload is wrapped in an authenticated
encrypted envelope (``AES`` session key, RSA-signed handshake).

* **Port 4506** (``ret_port``): request/reply. Used for auth handshake,
  job returns, mine pushes, ``salt-call`` publish requests,
  ``file_server`` reads.
* **Port 4505** (``publish_port``): pub/sub. The master publishes
  signed jobs; minions filter by target and execute.

The wire format is independent of the OS-level TLS configuration; the
:conf_master:`ssl` option wraps the underlying socket in TLS if set,
but the AES envelope is present either way.

Initial key exchange
--------------------

On first contact the minion sends its public key to the master. The
master stores it under one of:

* ``<pki_dir>/master/minions_pre/`` — unaccepted, waiting for an
  operator decision.
* ``<pki_dir>/master/minions/`` — accepted; published jobs reach this
  minion.
* ``<pki_dir>/master/minions_rejected/`` — explicitly rejected; the
  master will not authenticate this key.
* ``<pki_dir>/master/minions_denied/`` — denied (the minion ID is in
  use by a key the operator has not accepted; another key claiming
  this ID was offered).

The operator decision is made with :command:`salt-key` or the
``wheel.key`` runner. **Salt does not auto-accept by default.**
Setting :conf_master:`auto_accept` to ``True`` removes the operator
decision and is **not safe** on a network where a hostile process can
reach port 4506 — anything that completes the handshake gets
accepted. Use :conf_master:`autosign_file` instead for narrower
auto-accept on a list of minion IDs.

What the master cryptographically guarantees
--------------------------------------------

* A published job message reaching minion **M** was generated by the
  master that minion **M** is authenticated against (the minion has
  ``<pki_dir>/minion_master.pub`` on disk and verifies the signature).
* A return message reaching the master from minion ID **M** was
  produced by the holder of the private key the master accepted for
  **M**.

What the master does **not** guarantee
--------------------------------------

* That the minion ID is bound to a host, an IP, or a certificate.
  Minion ID is a self-declared string. Two minions can race to claim
  the same ID at accept time; the second loses and lands in
  ``minions_denied``. See :ref:`security-key-lifecycle`.
* That a rejected key cannot replay older traffic. ZeroMQ messages
  are signed but not timestamped end-to-end. Operators concerned
  about replay should enable :conf_master:`sign_pub_messages` and
  :conf_minion:`sign_pub_messages`.
* That a peer minion cannot impersonate another minion at the
  application layer. Salt's identity is the public key, not the
  source IP; a host with two distinct keys present is two distinct
  identities to the master.


Master-side authorization (publisher ACL, eauth)
================================================

Once an outside user has reached the master, the master decides what
that user can run. Two systems do this:

* :ref:`publisher-acl` — for local OS users on the master host. The
  user authenticates by being able to read the master's IPC socket
  (``/var/run/salt/master``) as themselves.
* :ref:`acl-eauth` — for users authenticated via PAM, LDAP, REST, or
  another auth backend, typically via ``salt-api``.

Both use the :ref:`access control system <acl>` matcher language.
See :ref:`publisher-acl` and :ref:`acl-eauth` for the syntax —
**every example in those pages is parsed by a unit test under
``tests/pytests/unit/test_acl_examples.py``** so the documented form
is the form the code accepts.

What the ACL system protects
----------------------------

* Module-function combinations: ``user X may run cmd.run`` /
  ``user X may run state.*``.
* Target sets: ``user X may target web*``, evaluated by the same
  matcher used for ``salt -G os:RedHat``.
* Argument shapes (since 2016.3): ``user X may run cmd.run only when
  arg[0] matches '^ls'``.

What the ACL system does **not** protect
----------------------------------------

* It does not stop a user with ``cmd.run`` from running shell on the
  minion. ``cmd.run`` is by design a remote shell.
* It does not stop a user from reading pillar data via
  ``pillar.items``. If a pillar contains a secret and a user can
  reach ``pillar.items`` on the target, the secret is exposed.
* It does not stop a user with ``@runner`` access from invoking the
  ``salt.cmd`` runner and re-publishing as ``root``. The
  ``@runner``/``@wheel`` token grants **master-side** execution; the
  runner runs as the master user (root by default).
* It does not by itself stop a user from creating a new orchestration
  with arbitrary content. ``state.orchestrate`` from an authorized
  user runs whatever SLS the user names.

The practical implication: **publisher_acl and eauth are about *who
can dispatch what*, not about sandboxing what dispatched code can
do.** Sensitive operations belong in dedicated minions or
``salt-ssh`` targets, not in fine-grained ACLs on a general-purpose
minion.

ACL gotchas
-----------

These are real configurations that have surprised operators in the
past:

* A matcher under ``publisher_acl_blacklist`` is checked *before*
  ``publisher_acl``. Blacklisting wins.
* ``permissive_acl: True`` falls back to the ``*`` entry only when
  the user has *no* explicit entry. With ``permissive_acl: False``
  (the default) a user who has any explicit entry is restricted to
  that entry; the ``*`` entry is ignored for them.
* ``@runner`` and ``@wheel`` tokens are **not** glob targets. A
  ``*`` entry does not grant runner or wheel access. You must spell
  out ``@runner`` (or ``@wheel``, or a narrower ``@runner_modname``).
* Argument restrictions match each positional arg as a regex against
  ``str(arg)``. ``None`` in the args list means "this slot may be
  anything"; the *absence* of a slot in the documented list means
  "this slot does not exist", and a longer caller args list fails
  the check.


Pillar and renderer secrets
===========================

Pillar data is computed on the master and shipped to the minion over
the encrypted channel. The pillar is the documented place to put
secrets.

Encrypted-pillar renderers
--------------------------

Two renderers are shipped:

* :py:mod:`gpg <salt.renderers.gpg>` — uses gnupg on the master.
  The master needs the private key in its gpg homedir; ciphertext
  lives in the pillar SLS.
* :py:mod:`aws_kms <salt.renderers.aws_kms>` — uses an AWS KMS
  Customer Master Key to wrap a local Fernet data key. See
  :ref:`aws-kms-pillar` for the end-to-end walkthrough.

For both renderers the **master process must hold the unwrapping
key**. The encryption boundary is the SLS file at rest in the
filesystem or in source control, not the master process memory.

What encrypted pillar does **not** do
-------------------------------------

* It does not prevent a user with ``pillar.items`` ACL on the target
  minion from reading the cleartext value. The decryption happens on
  the master before shipping; the minion receives plaintext.
* It does not protect against a compromised master host. The master
  holds both the unwrap key and the rendered cleartext in memory.


External sources (file_server, ext_pillar, returners, SDB)
==========================================================

* :ref:`file_server <file-server>` is read by the master; on
  ``gitfs`` the remote git endpoint authenticates the master, and
  on ``s3fs`` the bucket policy authenticates the master.
* ``ext_pillar`` runs in-process on the master; failure modes are
  documented per backend.
* Returners run either on the minion (``--return`` flag) or on the
  master (:conf_master:`master_job_cache`). Either way the connection
  string lives in the returner's section of the master or minion
  config and is the operator's responsibility to keep secret.
* :ref:`SDB <sdb>` is a generic name lookup. The backend (Vault,
  consul, env, ...) authenticates the master.

The recurring point: Salt is a *client* of these systems. The
external system enforces its own access policy; Salt forwards
credentials.


Filesystem and process trust
============================

These items are out of scope for Salt's wire protocol but are usually
where breaches happen in practice.

Master host
-----------

* ``<pki_dir>/master/master.pem`` is the master's private key. Anyone
  who can read this file is the master, including across reboots.
* ``<cachedir>/master/minions/*/data.p`` contains the minion's last
  rendered pillar. Anyone who can read this directory has the secrets.
* ``<cachedir>/jobs/`` contains job results, including command output.
  Anyone who can read this directory can read what minions returned.
* Running the master as a non-root user does **not** by itself reduce
  the blast radius; the master still has the same access to minions
  as the user who can talk to its IPC socket. See
  :ref:`configuration-non-root-user` for the supported configuration.

Minion host
-----------

* ``<pki_dir>/minion.pem`` is the minion's private key. Anyone who
  holds it can return data as this minion ID.
* ``<pki_dir>/minion_master.pub`` is the minion's pinned copy of the
  master's public key. Replacing it points the minion at a different
  master without any further authentication step.
* ``<cachedir>/extmods/`` is where minions cache custom modules
  shipped from the master. Anything dropped here runs the next time
  the minion starts a job.

Onedir packages and dependency CVEs
===================================

Onedir (the default Salt packaging since 3005) ships a bundled
Python interpreter and a curated set of Python dependencies under
``/opt/saltstack/salt`` (Linux) or the equivalent platform path. The
distribution-provided ``python`` and OS package manager are not
involved at runtime.

Operational implications:

* **A distro security update to** ``python3-*`` **does not patch the
  Salt onedir.** The onedir ships its own Python and its own copy of
  every Python library it links against (``cryptography``,
  ``requests``, ``pyzmq``, ``tornado``, ``msgpack``, ``urllib3``,
  ``certifi``, ...). When a CVE lands against one of these, the fix
  ships in the next Salt release of the onedir, not via the distro.
* The Salt Project tracks bundled-dependency CVEs in the
  per-release notes under ``doc/topics/releases/``. The release
  notes for a given Salt version list any bundled dependency
  upgrades.
* The supported way to keep the onedir current is the same as for
  Salt itself — install the next Salt release. Replacing
  ``site-packages`` inside the onedir tree by hand is not
  supported.
* For environments under strict CVE-response SLAs, the
  user-installable wheel (``pip install salt``) lets the operator
  choose dependency versions but loses the curated test matrix and
  the ``salt-master`` / ``salt-minion`` ``systemd`` units that the
  package ships.

Reported in :issue:`62820`. The dependency vendoring decision is
intentional (it gives every Salt install the same Python regardless
of host); the security trade-off is that the operator must treat the
Salt onedir as a separate patching domain from the host OS.


Cross-reference
===============

* :ref:`hardening-salt` — operator-facing tips collected as a
  checklist.
* :ref:`security-key-lifecycle` — accept / reject / rotate / denylist
  flows.
* :ref:`disclosure` — how to report a vulnerability.
* :ref:`publisher-acl`, :ref:`acl-eauth` — the ACL systems in
  detail.
