{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c91373;}
\vieww12000\viewh14900\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://saltstack.com/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Salt}}
\f0\fs24  has been installed into 
\f1 /opt/salt.
\f0 \
Sample configuration files (
\f1 master.dist
\f0  and 
\f1 minion.dist
\f0 ) have been installed to 
\f1 /etc/salt
\f0 . Create copies of them without the '
\f1 .dist
\f0 ' file extension and edit as you see fit.\
You can also use the 
\f1 salt-config.sh
\f0  script to configure Salt. The script is located in the 
\f1 /opt/salt/bin
\f0  directory. A symlink to that file is created in 
\f1 /usr/local/sbin
\f0 . If 
\f1 /usr/local/sbin
\f0  is part of the path you can type 
\f1 salt-config --help
\f0  in a bash shell to get config options.\
This Salt package uses its own compiled Python that is not linked to the system Python. To install additional Python modules to Salt's Python environment, use Salt's '
\f1 pip
\f0 ' binary. For example, if you need LDAP support in Salt you will need the '
\f1 python-ldap
\f0 ' module. Install it with the following command:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 /opt/salt/bin/pip install python-ldap
\f0 \
Note: Some Python modules need to be compiled. Installing Apple's Xcode Command Line Tools should provide the necessary utilities. Alternatively, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://macports.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 MacPorts}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://finkproject.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fink}}, or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://brew.sh/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Homebrew}} may provide what you need.\
More documentation for Salt is available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.saltproject.io"}}{\fldrslt https://docs.saltproject.io}}\
}
