==============================
Salt Cloud 0.7.0 Release Notes
==============================

Salt Cloud marches forward with the 0.7.0 release. As is customary for Salt
Stack projects the 0.7.0 release is intended to be much more robust and
deliver a more complete core feature set. Salt Cloud 0.7.0 is just that.

With new tools to help look into what is available on cloud providers,
new additions to make cloud management more stateful and the addition of
more supported cloud platforms 0.7.0 has greatly enhanced the capabilities
of the overall Salt platform.

Documentation
=============

The documentation for Salt Cloud can be found on Read the Docs:
http://salt-cloud.readthedocs.org

Download
========

Salt Cloud can be downloaded and install via pypi or github:

http://pypi.python.org/packages/source/s/salt-cloud/salt-cloud-0.7.0.tar.gz

https://github.com/downloads/saltstack/salt-cloud/salt-cloud-0.7.0.tar.gz

Some packages have been made available for salt-cloud and more on on their
way. Packages for Arch, and FreeBSD are being made available thanks to the
work of Christer Edwards, and packages for RHEL and Fedora are being created
by Clint Savage. Package availability will be announced on the salt mailing list.

New Cloud Provider Support
==========================

The following cloud providers are now supported:

Amazon AWS
  http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/

Rackspace Cloud
  http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/

Linode
  http://www.linode.com/

Joyent
  http://joyent.com/

GoGrid
  http://www.gogrid.com/

List Available Resources
========================

Setting up Salt Cloud requires knowlege of the available sizes and images on
cloud providers. Listing the available images and sizes can now be done with
the salt-cloud command:

.. code-block:: bash

    [root@saltmaster]# salt-cloud --list-sizes linode
    linode
      Linode 1024
        bandwidth: 400
        disk: 40960
        id: 3
        name: Linode 1024
        ram: 1024
        uuid: 56e6f495190cb2ed1a343f7159ad447cf27d906d
      Linode 12GB
        bandwidth: 2000
        disk: 491520
        id: 8
        name: Linode 12GB
        ram: 12288
        uuid: 3d1731ebefdbcb4c283957b43d45f89a01f67c5f
      Linode 1536
        bandwidth: 600
        disk: 61440
        id: 4
        name: Linode 1536
        ram: 1536
        uuid: f0f28628cc70c5f2656aa3f313588d8509ee3787
      Linode 16GB
        bandwidth: 2000
        disk: 655360
        id: 9
        name: Linode 16GB
        ram: 16384
        uuid: 208cc3c0a60c4eab6ed6861344fef0311c13ffd2
      Linode 2048
        bandwidth: 800
        disk: 81920
        id: 5
        name: Linode 2048
        ram: 2048
        uuid: 0c9ee69dc7ef7a4cdce71963f8d18e76c61dd57f
      Linode 20GB
        bandwidth: 2000
        disk: 819200
        id: 10
        name: Linode 20GB
        ram: 20480
        uuid: e0a7b61e3830a120eec94459c9fc34ef7c9e0e36
      Linode 4GB
        bandwidth: 1600
        disk: 163840
        id: 6
        name: Linode 4GB
        ram: 4096
        uuid: 09585e0f1d4ef4aad486cfa3d53f9d8960f575e7
      Linode 512
        bandwidth: 200
        disk: 20480
        id: 1
        name: Linode 512
        ram: 512
        uuid: 3497f7def3d6081e6f65ac6e577296bc6b810c05
      Linode 768
        bandwidth: 300
        disk: 30720
        id: 2
        name: Linode 768
        ram: 768
        uuid: da9f0dbc144aaa234aa5d555426863c8068a8c70
      Linode 8GB
        bandwidth: 2000
        disk: 327680
        id: 7
        name: Linode 8GB
        ram: 8192
        uuid: e08f8a57551297b9310545430c67667f59120606


Destroy!
========

Salt Cloud can now destroy cloud vms as easily as it can create them. The new
``--destroy`` option can be passed to end the life of a vm:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ salt-cloud -d web1

The map operation can now also destroy vms, the new ``hard`` option can be
passed which makes vm maps much more stateful. With the ``hard`` option the
vm maps are viewed as the absolute source of information for the state of
cloud resources, and any vm that is not specified in the map file will be
destroyed:

.. code-block:: bash

    [root@saltmaster]# salt-cloud -m /etc/salt/cloud.map -H
    The following virtual machines are set to be created:
      web1
      riak4
    The following virtual machines are set to be destroyed:
      app7
      devtest4

    Proceed? [N/y]

