==============================
Salt Cloud 0.8.1 Release Notes
==============================

In a somewhat quicker timeline than usual, Salt Cloud 0.8.1 has been released!
While many of the updates in this release focus on stability, users of map
files and AWS also have some new features to look forward to.

Documentation
=============

The documentation for Salt Cloud can be found on Read the Docs:
https://salt-cloud.readthedocs.io

Download
========

Salt Cloud can be downloaded and install via pypi or github:

https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/s/salt-cloud/salt-cloud-0.8.1.tar.gz

https://cloud.github.com/downloads/saltstack/salt-cloud/salt-cloud-0.8.1.tar.gz

Some packages have been made available for salt-cloud and more on their
way. Packages for Arch, and FreeBSD are being made available thanks to the
work of Christer Edwards, and packages for RHEL and Fedora are being created
by Clint Savage. Package availability will be announced on the salt mailing list.

Full Query Option
=================

The -Q or --query option only displays a small amount of information about
each virtual machine. This is to keep command-line reports small and
manageable. Now the -F or --full-query option can be used to display all
of the information about a VM that salt-cloud knows about. The amount of
information returned varies between providers, depending on the kinds of
functionality available through them.

Increased Map Functionality
===========================

Previously, map files were only used for creating VMs. Now they can also be
used to query and delete VMs. The -Q, -F, and -d options can all be used in
conjunction with -m, to display map-specific data. If a VM that is specified
in the map does not exist, it will still show up under -Q and -F as "Absent".
If a VM specified in the map does not exist when a -d is specified, it will
of course be ignored.

Multiple Security Groups in AWS
===============================

AWS allows for multiple security groups to be applied to any given VM, but
until this release, Salt Cloud only supported managing one. This update allows
a list of security groups to be specified. In the main configuration file, an
example of multiple security groups would look like:

.. code-block:: yaml

  AWS.securitygroup:
    - default
    - extra

In a profile, an example would be:

.. code-block:: yaml

  micro_amazon:
    provider: aws
    image: ami-e565ba8c
    size: Micro Instance
    os: RHEL6
    securitygroup:
        - default
        - extra

Bug Fixes
=========

A number of bugs have been fixed in this release. Most of these were internal
fixes related to authentication and deployment across various providers. Bug
fixes in this release include:

Ubuntu users may notice that deploying an instance has become significantly
noisier. A change was made to make Ubuntu display information returned as
packages are installed, which is more aligned with how yum-based machines
already behaved. This also forced these VMs to deploy salt in a much more
reliable manner.

Requirements listed in requirements.txt are also pulled into setup.py, to make
it easy to use the easy_install tool.

Most cloud providers default to root as the initial user, but AWS typically
providers a different user (ec2-user, ubuntu, bitnami, etc). Deployment on
such images must be handled using sudo. Previously, sudo was used to issue
all deployment commands, but this failed on images where sudo was not installed
by default (such as FreeBSD). Now sudo will only be used with non-root logins.
