==============================
Salt Cloud 0.8.7 Release Notes
==============================

Welcome to 0.8.7! This is a landmark release which adds two new cloud providers,
one pseudo cloud provider, and an exciting, flexible new configuration format!
Don't worry, the old config format will still work, and you can wait to migrate
to the new format when you're ready. However, the old and new formats are not
compatible, so don't try and mix them.

We would like to extend a special thanks to the folks at X-Mission for granting
us access to their cloud so that we could develop the Parallels driver! Without
their help, this driver would not exist. Please take a moment to take a look at
their cloud offering:

http://xmission.com/cloud_hosting

We would also like to thank DigitalOcean for their help and resources while
developing the driver for their cloud offering. The folks over there have been
very friendly and helpful! Please take a moment to check them out:

https://www.digitalocean.com/

For more details, read on!


Documentation
=============

The documentation for Salt Cloud can be found on Read the Docs:
http://salt-cloud.readthedocs.org


Download
========

Salt Cloud can be downloaded and install via pypi:

https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/s/salt-cloud/salt-cloud-0.8.7.tar.gz

Some packages have been made available for salt-cloud and more on on their
way. Packages for Arch and FreeBSD are being made available thanks to the
work of Christer Edwards, and packages for RHEL and Fedora are being created
by Clint Savage. The Ubuntu PPA is being managed by Sean Channel. Package
availability will be announced on the salt mailing list.


Added Parallels Support
=======================
As mentioned above, X-Mission was kind enough to lend us the resources to write
a cloud driver for Parallels-based cloud providers. This driver requires only
a ``user``, ``password``, and a ``url``. These can be obtained from your cloud
provider.

* Using the legacy configuration format:

.. code-block:: yaml

    PARALLELS.user: myuser
    PARALLELS.password: xyzzy
    PARALLELS.url: https://api.cloud.xmission.com:4465/paci/v1.0/


Added DigitalOcean Support
===========================
DigitalOcean has been a highly-requested cloud provider, and we are pleased to
be able to meet the demand. Only a ``client_key`` and an ``api_key`` are
required for DigitalOcean.

* Using the legacy configuration format:

.. code-block:: yaml

    DIGITAL_OCEAN.client_key: wFGEwgregeqw3435gDger
    DIGITAL_OCEAN.api_key: GDE43t43REGTrkilg43934t34qT43t4dgegerGEgg


Updated Configuration Format
============================
This is a massive change that we have been wanting for months to add. We would
like to extend special thanks to Pedro Algarvio (s0undt3ch) for his tireless
efforts, which included significant changes to the codebase.

The old configuration format will still function as before, so there is no
pressure just yet to move over. However, the configuration formats are not
compatible with each other, so when you're ready to switch over, make sure to
switch everything over at once.

Luckily, the changes are not difficult to get used to. The old format looked
like the following:

.. code-block:: yaml

    SOMEPROVIDER.option1: some_stuff
    SOMEPROVIDER.option2: some_other_stuff

The new format for the above would look like:

.. code-block:: yaml

    my_provider:
      option1: some_stuff
      option2: some_other_stuff
      provider: someprovider

This update allows for multiple accounts using the same provider. For instance,
if using multiple accounts with Amazon EC2, your configuration may look like:

.. code-block:: yaml

    my-first-ec2:
      id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
      key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
      keyname: test
      securitygroup: quick-start
      private_key: /root/test.pem
      provider: ec2

    my-second-ec2:
      id: LJLKJYGHJGRYCI
      key: 'rigjksjdhasdfgnkdjgfsgm;woormgl/ase'
      keyname: test
      securitygroup: quick-start
      private_key: /root/test.pem
      provider: ec2

Profiles are then configured using the name of the configuration block, rather
than the provider name. For instance:

.. code-block:: yaml

    rhel-ec2:
        provider: my-second-ec2
        image: ami-e565ba8c
        size: Micro Instance

Likewise, issuing commands will reference the name of the configuration block,
rather than the provider name. For instance:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud --list-sizes my-first-ec2

This is critical for using multiple clouds, which use the same Salt Cloud
driver. For instance, Salt Cloud has been gaining popularity for usage with
private clouds utilizing OpenStack. The following two commands are likely to
return different data:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud --list-images openstack-hp
    salt-cloud --list-images openstack-rackspace


Provider Aliases
================
It is also possible to have multiple providers configured with the same name.
This allows for similar environments across multiple providers to share the same
name. For instance:

.. code-block:: bash

    production-config:
      - id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
        key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
        keyname: test
        securitygroup: quick-start
        private_key: /root/test.pem
        provider: aws

      - id: LJLKJYGHJGRYCI
        key: 'rigjksjdhasdfgnkdjgfsgm;woormgl/ase'
        keyname: test
        securitygroup: quick-start
        private_key: /root/test.pem
        provider: ec2

With this configuration, you can then set up the following profiles:

.. code-block:: bash

    development-instances:
      provider: production-config:aws
      size: Micro Instance
      ssh_username: ec2_user
      securitygroup: default

    staging-instances:
      provider: production-config:ec2
      size: Micro Instance
      ssh_username: ec2_user
      securitygroup: default

Keep in mind that if there is only one configured provider with a specific name,
you do not have to specify an alias. But if multiple are set up as above, you
must use the aliased name.

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud --list-sizes production-config:ec2


Extending Profiles
==================
If using the new configuration format, you will have the ability to extend
profile definitions. This can make profile configuration much easier to read and
manage. For instance:

.. code-block:: yaml

    development-instances:
      provider: my-ec2-config
      size: Micro Instance
      ssh_username: ec2_user
      securitygroup:
        - default
      deploy: False

    Amazon-Linux-AMI-2012.09-64bit:
      image: ami-54cf5c3d
      extends: development-instances

    Fedora-17:
      image: ami-08d97e61
      extends: development-instances

    CentOS-5:
      provider: my-aws-config
      image: ami-09b61d60
      extends: development-instances

In this case, the CentOS-5 profile will in fact look like:

.. code-block:: yaml

    CentOS-5:
      provider: my-aws-config
      size: Micro Instance
      ssh_username: ec2_user
      securitygroup:
        - default
      deploy: False
      image: ami-09b61d60

Because it copied all of the configuration from ``development-instances``, and
overrode the provider with a new provider.


Extending Providers
===================
If using the new configuration format, providers can be extended in the same
way. For instance, the following will set up two different providers, each
sharing some of the same configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    my-develop-envs:
      - id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
        key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
        keyname: test
        securitygroup: quick-start
        private_key: /root/test.pem
        location: ap-southeast-1
        availability_zone: ap-southeast-1b
        provider: aws

      - user: myuser@mycorp.com
        password: mypass
        ssh_key_name: mykey
        ssh_key_file: '/etc/salt/ibm/mykey.pem'
        location: Raleigh
        provider: ibmsce


    my-productions-envs:
      - extends: my-develop-envs:ibmsce
        user: my-production-user@mycorp.com
        location: us-east-1
        availability_zone: us-east-1
