==============================
Salt Cloud 0.8.5 Release Notes
==============================

Welcome to 0.8.5! Some important things have happened in this release, that
you'll want to take note of. The first thing that may trip you up when
installing directly is that Paramiko is no longer a dependency, and botocore
and sshpass are new dependencies. Read on to see what else has happened.

Documentation
=============

The documentation for Salt Cloud can be found on Read the Docs:
https://salt-cloud.readthedocs.io

Download
========

Salt Cloud can be downloaded and install via pypi:

https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/s/salt-cloud/salt-cloud-0.8.5.tar.gz

Some packages have been made available for salt-cloud and more on their
way. Packages for Arch and FreeBSD are being made available thanks to the
work of Christer Edwards, and packages for RHEL and Fedora are being created
by Clint Savage. The Ubuntu PPA is being managed by Sean Channel. Package
availability will be announced on the salt mailing list.

Salt Bootstrap
==============
In 0.8.4, the default deploy script was set to bootstrap-salt-minion. Since
then, the Salt Boostrap script has been extended to be able to install more
than just minions, and as such, has been renamed. It is now called
bootstrap-salt, and has been renamed in Salt Cloud accordingly. Check out the
salt-bootstrap project for more details:

https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap

Just another reminder: For those of you still using "os" in your profiles, this
option was renamed to "script" in 0.8.2, and your configuration should be
updated accordingly.

Updating Salt Bootstrap
=======================
If you like running the latest and greatest version of salt-bootstrap, but
you're sick of tracking down the source directory to update it, a new option
has been added to update it for you.

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud -u
    salt-cloud --update-bootstrap

Bear in mind that this updates to the latest (unstable) version, so use with
caution.

Modify AWS Tags
===============
One of the features of AWS is the ability to tag resources. In fact, under the
hood, the names given to EC2 instances by salt-cloud are actually just stored
as a tag called Name. The ability to manage tags on AWS instances has now been
added to Salt Cloud.

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud -a get_tags mymachine
    salt-cloud -a set_tags mymachine tag1=somestuff tag2='Other stuff'
    salt-cloud -a del_tags mymachine tag1,tag2,tag3

Rename AWS Instances
====================
As mentioned above, AWS instances are named via a tag. However, renaming an
instance by renaming its tag will cause the salt keys to mismatch. A rename
function has been added which renames both the instance, and the salt keys.

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud -a rename mymachine newname=yourmachine

AWS Termination Protection
==========================
AWS allows the user to enable and disable termination protection on a specific
instance. An instance with this protection enabled cannot be destroyed.

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud -a enable_term_protect mymachine
    salt-cloud -a disable_term_protect mymachine

Setting up New Salt Masters
===========================
It has become increasingly common for users to set up multi-hierarchal
infrastructures using Salt Cloud. This sometimes involves setting up an
instance to be a master in addition to a minion. With that in mind, you can
now law down master configuration on a machine by specifying master options
in the profile or map file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    make_master: True

This will cause Salt Cloud to generate master keys for the instance, and tell
salt-bootstrap to install the salt-master package, in addition to the
salt-minion package.

The default master configuration is usually appropriate for most users, and
will not be changed unless specific master configuration has been added to the
profile or map:

.. code-block:: yaml

    master:
        user: root
        interface: 0.0.0.0

Keeping /tmp/ Files
===================
When Salt Cloud deploys an instance, it uploads temporary files to /tmp/ for
salt-bootstrap to put in place. After the script has run, they are deleted. To
keep these files around (mostly for debugging purposes), the --keep-tmp option
can be added:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt-cloud -p myprofile mymachine --keep-tmp

For those wondering why /tmp/ was used instead of /root/, this had to be done
for images which require the use of sudo, and therefore do not allow remote
root logins, even for file transfers (which makes /root/ unavailable).

Deploy Script Arguments
=======================
Custom deploy scripts are unlikely to need custom arguments to be passed to
them, but salt-bootstrap has been extended quite a bit, and this may be
necessary. script_args can be specified in either the profile or the map
file, to pass arguments to the deploy script:

.. code-block:: yaml

    aws-amazon:
        provider: aws
        image: ami-1624987f
        size: Micro Instance
        ssh_username: ec2-user
        script: bootstrap-salt
        script_args: -c /tmp/

This has also been tested to work with pipes, if needed:

.. code-block:: yaml

    script_args: '| head'

Remove Old SSH Keys
===================
When an instance is destroyed, its IP address is usually recycled back into
the IP pool. When such an IP is reassigned to you, and the old key is still in
your known_hosts file, the deploy script will fail due to mismatched SSH keys.
To mitigate this, add the following to your main cloud configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    delete_sshkeys: True
