=========================
Salt 0.17.0 Release Notes
=========================

:release: 2013-09-26

The 0.17.0 release is a very exciting release of Salt, this brings to Salt
some very powerful new features and advances. The advances range from the
state system to the test suite, covering new transport capabilities and
making states easier and more powerful, to extending Salt Virt and much more!

The 0.17.0 release will also be the last release of Salt to follow the old
0.XX.X numbering system, the next release of Salt will change the numbering to
be date based following this format:

<Year>.<Month>.<Minor>

So if the release happens in November of 2013 the number will be 13.11.0, the
first bugfix release will be 13.11.1 and so forth.


Major Features
==============

Halite
------

The new Halite web GUI is now available on PyPI. A great deal of work has
been put into Halite to make it fully event driven and amazingly fast. The
Halite UI can be started from within the Salt Master (after being installed
from PyPI), or standalone, and does not require an external database to run.
It is very lightweight!

This initial release of Halite is primarily the framework for the UI and the
communication systems, making it easy to extend and build the UI up. It
presently supports watching the event bus and firing commands over Salt.

At this time, Halite is not available as a package, but installation
documentation is available at:
http://docs.saltstack.com/topics/tutorials/halite.html

Halite is, like the rest of Salt, Open Source!

Much more will be coming in the future of Halite!

Salt SSH
--------

The new ``salt-ssh`` command has been added to Salt. This system allows for
remote execution and states to be run over ssh. The benefit here being, that
salt can run relying only on the ssh agent, rather than requiring a minion
to be deployed.

The ``salt-ssh`` system runs states in a compatible way as Salt and states
created and run with salt-ssh can be moved over to a standard salt deployment
without modification.

Since this is the initial release of salt-ssh, there is plenty of room for
improvement, but it is fully operational, not just a bootstrap tool.

Rosters
-------

Salt is designed to have the minions be aware of the master and the master does
not need to be aware of the location of the minions. The new salt roster system
was created and designed to facilitate listing the targets for salt-ssh.

The roster system, like most of Salt, is a plugin system, allowing for the list
of systems to target to be derived from any pluggable backend. The rosters
shipping with 0.17.0 are flat and scan. Flat is a file which is read in via the
salt render system and the scan roster does simple network scanning to discover
ssh servers.

State Auto Order
----------------

This is a major change in how states are evaluated in Salt. State Auto Order
is a new feature that makes states get evaluated and executed in the order in
which they are defined in the sls file. This feature makes it very easy to
see the finite order in which things will be executed, making Salt now, fully
imperative AND fully declarative.

The requisite system still takes precedence over the order in which states are
defined, so no existing states should break with this change. But this new
feature can be turned off by setting ``state_auto_order: False`` in the master
config, thus reverting to the old lexicographical order.

state.sls Runner
----------------

The ``state.sls`` runner has been created to allow for a more powerful system
for orchestrating state runs and function calls across the salt minions. This
new system uses the state system for organizing executions.

This allows for states to be defined that are executed on the master to call
states on minions via ``salt-run state.sls``.

Salt Thin
---------

Salt Thin is an exciting new component of Salt, this is the ability to execute
Salt routines without any transport mechanisms installed, it is a pure python
subset of Salt.

Salt Thin does not have any networking capability, but can be dropped into any
system with Python installed and then ``salt-call`` can be called directly. The
Salt Thin system, is used by the ``salt-ssh`` command, but can still be used to
just drop salt somewhere for easy use.

Event Namespacing
-----------------

Events have been updated to be much more flexible. The tags in events have all
been namespaced allowing easier tracking of event names.

Mercurial Fileserver Backend
----------------------------

The popular git fileserver backend has been joined by the mercurial fileserver
backend, allowing the state tree to be managed entirely via mercurial.

External Logging Handlers
-------------------------

The external logging handler system allows for Salt to directly hook into any
external logging system. Currently supported are sentry and logstash.

Jenkins Testing
---------------

The testing systems in Salt have been greatly enhanced, tests for salt are now
executed, via jenkins.saltstack.com, across many supported platforms. Jenkins
calls out to salt-cloud to create virtual machines on Rackspace, then the
minion on the virtual machine checks into the master running on Jenkins where
a state run is executed that sets up the minion to run tests and executes the
test suite.

This now automates the sequence of running platform tests and allows for
continuous destructive tests to be run.

Salt Testing Project
--------------------

The testing libraries for salt have been moved out of the main salt code base
and into a standalone codebase. This has been done to ease the use of the
testing systems being used in salt based projects other than Salt itself.

StormPath External Authentication
---------------------------------

The external auth system now supports the fantastic Stormpath cloud based
authentication system.

LXC Support
-----------

Extensive additions have been added to Salt for LXC support. This included
the backend libs for managing LXC containers. Addition into the salt-virt
system is still in the works.

Mac OS X User/Group Support
---------------------------

Salt is now able to manage users and groups on Minions running Mac OS X.
However, at this time user passwords cannot be managed.

Django ORM External Pillar
--------------------------

Pillar data can now be derived from Django managed databases.

Fixes from RC to release
------------------------

- Multiple documentation fixes
- Add multiple source files + templating for :mod:`file.append
  <salt.states.file.append>` (:issue:`6905`)
- Support sysctl configuration files in systemd>=207 (:issue:`7351`)
- Add :mod:`file.search <salt.modules.file.search>` and :mod:`file.replace
  <salt.modules.file.replace>`
- Fix cross-calling execution functions in provider overrides
- Fix locale override for postgres (:issue:`4543`)
- Fix Raspbian identification for service/pkg support (:issue:`7371`)
- Fix :mod:`cp.push <salt.modules.cp.push>` file corruption (:issue:`6495`)
- Fix ALT Linux password hash specification (:issue:`3474`)
- Multiple salt-ssh-related fixes and improvements