========================
Salt 0.9.8 Release Notes
========================

:release: 2012-03-21

Salt 0.9.8 is a big step forward, with many additions and enhancements, as
well as a number of precursors to advanced future developments.

This version of Salt adds much more power to the command line, making the
old hard timeout issues a thing of the past and adds keyword argument
support. These additions are also available in the salt client API, making
the available API tools much more powerful.

The new pillar system allows for data to be stored on the master and
assigned to minions in a granular way similar to the state system. It also
allows flexibility for users who want to keep data out of their state tree
similar to 'external lookup' functionality in other tools.

A new way to extend requisites was added, the "requisite in" statement.
This makes adding requires or watch statements to external state decs
much easier.

Additions to requisites making them much more powerful have been added as well
as improved error checking for sls files in the state system. A new provider
system has been added to allow for redirecting what modules run in the
background for individual states.

Support for openSUSE has been added and support for Solaris has begun
serious development. Windows support has been significantly enhanced as well.

The matcher and target systems have received a great deal of attention. The
default behavior of grain matching has changed slightly to reflect the rest
of salt and the compound matcher system has been refined.

A number of impressive features with keyword arguments have been added to both
the CLI and to the state system. This makes states much more powerful and
flexible while maintaining the simple configuration everyone loves.

The new batch size capability allows for executions to be rolled through a
group of targeted minions a percentage or specific number at a time. This
was added to prevent the "thundering herd" problem when targeting large
numbers of minions for things like service restarts or file downloads.

Upgrade Considerations
======================

Upgrade Issues
--------------

There was a previously missed oversight which could cause a newer minion to
crash an older master. That oversight has been resolved so the version
incompatibility issue will no longer occur. When upgrading to 0.9.8 make
sure to upgrade the master first, followed by the minions.

Debian/Ubuntu Packages
----------------------

The original Debian/Ubuntu packages were called salt and included all salt
applications. New packages in the ppa are split by function. If an old salt
package is installed then it should be manually removed and the new split
packages need to be freshly installed.

On the master:

.. code-block:: sh

    # apt-get purge salt
    # apt-get install salt-{master,minion}

On the minions:

.. code-block:: sh

    # apt-get purge salt
    # apt-get install salt-minion

And on any Syndics:

.. code-block:: sh

    # apt-get install salt-syndic

The official Salt PPA for Ubuntu is located at:
https://launchpad.net/~saltstack/+archive/salt


Major Features
==============


Pillar
------

:ref:`Pillar <pillar>` offers an interface to declare variable data on the master that is then
assigned to the minions. The pillar data is made available to all modules,
states, sls files etc. It is compiled on the master and is declared using the
existing renderer system. This means that learning pillar should be fairly
trivial to those already familiar with salt states.

CLI Additions
-------------

The ``salt`` command has received a serious overhaul and is more powerful
than ever. Data is returned to the terminal as it is received, and the salt
command will now wait for all running minions to return data before stopping.
This makes adding very large *--timeout* arguments completely unnecessary and
gets rid of long running operations returning empty ``{}`` when the timeout is
exceeded.

When calling salt via sudo, the user originally running salt is saved to the
log for auditing purposes. This makes it easy to see who ran what by just
looking through the minion logs.

The *salt-key* command gained the *-D* and *--delete-all* arguments for
removing all keys. Be careful with this one!

Running States Without a Master
-------------------------------

The addition of running states without a salt-master has been added
to 0.9.8. This feature allows for the unmodified salt state tree to be
read locally from a minion. The result is that the UNMODIFIED state tree
has just become portable, allowing minions to have a local copy of states
or to manage states without a master entirely.

This is accomplished via the new file client interface in Salt that allows
for the ``salt://`` URI to be redirected to custom interfaces. This means that
there are now two interfaces for the salt file server, calling the master
or looking in a local, minion defined ``file_roots``.

This new feature can be used by modifying the minion config to point to a
local ``file_roots`` and setting the ``file_client`` option to ``local``.


Keyword Arguments and States
----------------------------

State modules now accept the ``**kwargs`` argument. This results in all data
in a sls file assigned to a state being made available to the state function.

This passes data in a transparent way back to the modules executing the logic.
In particular, this allows adding arguments to the ``pkg.install`` module that
enable more advanced and granular controls with respect to what the state is
capable of.

An example of this along with the new debconf module for installing ldap
client packages on Debian:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ldap-client-packages:
      pkg:
        - debconf: salt://debconf/ldap-client.ans
        - installed
        - names:
          - nslcd
          - libpam-ldapd
          - libnss-ldapd

Keyword Arguments and the CLI
-----------------------------

In the past it was required that all arguments be passed in the proper order to
the *salt* and *salt-call* commands. As of 0.9.8, keyword arguments can be
passed in the form of ``kwarg=argument``.

.. code-block:: sh

    # salt -G 'type:dev' git.clone \
        repository=https://github.com/saltstack/salt.git cwd=/tmp/salt user=jeff


Matcher Refinements and Changes
-------------------------------

A number of fixes and changes have been applied to the Matcher system. The
most noteworthy is the change in the grain matcher. The grain matcher used to
use a regular expression to match the passed data to a grain, but now defaults
to a shell glob like the majority of match interfaces in Salt. A new option
is available that still uses the old style regex matching to grain data called
``grain-pcre``. To use regex matching in compound matches use the letter *P*.

For example, this would match any ArchLinux or Fedora minions:

.. code-block:: sh

  # salt --grain-pcre 'os:(Arch:Fed).*' test.ping

And the associated compound matcher suitable for ``top.sls`` is *P*:

.. code-block:: sh

  P@os:(Arch|Fed).*

**NOTE**: Changing the grains matcher from pcre to glob is backwards
incompatible.

Support has been added for matching minions with Yahoo's range library. This
is handled by passing range syntax with *-R* or *--range* arguments to salt.

More information at:
https://github.com/ytoolshed/range/wiki/%22yamlfile%22-module-file-spec


Requisite "in"
--------------

A new means to updating requisite statements has been added to make adding
watchers and requires to external states easier. Before 0.9.8 the only way
to extend the states that were watched by a state outside of the sls was to
use an extend statement:

.. code-block:: yaml

    include:
      - http
    extend:
      apache:
        service:
          - watch:
            - pkg: tomcat

    tomcat:
      pkg:
        - installed

But the new ``Requisite in`` statement allows for easier extends for
requisites:

.. code-block:: yaml

    include:
      - http

    tomcat:
      pkg:
        - installed
        - watch_in:
          - service: apache

Requisite in is part of the extend system, so still remember to always include
the sls that is being extended!

Providers
---------

Salt predetermines what modules should be mapped to what uses based on the
properties of a system. These determinations are generally made for modules
that provide things like package and service management. The apt module
maps to pkg on Debian and the yum module maps to pkg on Fedora for instance.

Sometimes in states, it may be necessary for a non-default module to be used
for the desired functionality. For instance, an Arch Linux system may have
been set up with systemd support. Instead of using the default service module
detected for Arch Linux, the systemd module can be used:

.. code-block:: yaml

    http:
      service:
        - running
        - enable: True
        - provider: systemd

Default providers can also be defined in the minion config file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    providers:
      service: systemd

When default providers are passed in the minion config, then those providers
will be applied to all functionality in Salt, this means that the functions
called by the minion will use these modules, as well as states.

Requisite Glob Matching
-----------------------

Requisites can now be defined with glob expansion. This means that if there are
many requisites, they can be defined on a single line.

To watch all files in a directory:

.. code-block:: yaml

    http:
      service:
        - running
        - enable: True
        - watch:
          - file: /etc/http/conf.d/*

This example will watch all defined files that match the glob
``/etc/http/conf.d/*``

Batch Size
----------

The new batch size option allows commands to be executed while maintaining that
only so many hosts are executing the command at one time. This option can
take a percentage or a finite number:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' -b 10 test.ping

    salt -G 'os:RedHat' --batch-size 25% apache.signal restart

This will only run test.ping on 10 of the targeted minions at a time and then
restart apache on 25% of the minions matching ``os:RedHat`` at a time and work
through them all until the task is complete. This makes jobs like rolling web
server restarts behind a load balancer or doing maintenance on BSD firewalls
using carp much easier with salt.

Module Updates
--------------

This is a list of notable, but non-exhaustive updates with new and existing
modules.

Windows support has seen a flurry of support this release cycle. We've gained
all new :mod:`file <alt.modules.win_file>`,
:mod:`network <salt.modules.win_network>`, and
:mod:`shadow <salt.modules.win_shadow>` modules. Please note
that these are still a work in progress.

For our ruby users, new :mod:`rvm <salt.modules.rvm>` and
:mod:`gem <salt.modules.gem>` modules have been added along
with the :mod:`associated <salt.states.rvm>`
:mod:`states <salt.states.gem>`

The :mod:`virt <salt.modules.virt>` module gained basic Xen support.

The :mod:`yum <salt.modules.yumpkg>` module gained
Scientific Linux support.

The :mod:`pkg <salt.modules.aptpkg>` module on Debian, Ubuntu,
and derivatives force apt to run in a non-interactive mode. This prevents
issues when package installation waits for confirmation.

A :mod:`pkg <salt.modules.zypper>` module for OpenSUSE's
zypper was added.

The :mod:`service <salt.modules.upstart>` module on Ubuntu
natively supports upstart.

A new :mod:`debconf <salt.modules.debconfmod>` module was
contributed by our community for more advanced control over deb package
deployments on Debian based distributions.

The :mod:`mysql.user <salt.states.mysql_user>` state and
:mod:`mysql <salt.modules.mysql>` module gained a
*password_hash* argument.

The :mod:`cmd <salt.modules.cmdmod>` module and state gained
a *shell* keyword argument for specifying a shell other than ``/bin/sh`` on
Linux / Unix systems.

New :mod:`git <salt.modules.git>` and
:mod:`mercurial <salt.modules.hg>` modules have been added
for fans of distributed version control.


In Progress Development
=======================

Master Side State Compiling
---------------------------

While we feel strongly that the advantages gained with minion side state
compiling are very critical, it does prevent certain features that may be
desired. 0.9.8 has support for initial master side state compiling, but many
more components still need to be developed, it is hoped that these can be
finished for 0.9.9.

The goal is that states can be compiled on both the master and the minion
allowing for compilation to be split between master and minion. Why will
this be great? It will allow storing sensitive data on the master and sending
it to some minions without all minions having access to it. This will be
good for handling ssl certificates on front-end web servers for instance.


Solaris Support
---------------

Salt 0.9.8 sees the introduction of basic Solaris support. The daemon runs
well, but grains and more of the modules need updating and testing.


Windows Support
---------------

Salt states on windows are now much more viable thanks to contributions from
our community! States for file, service, local user, and local group management are more fully
fleshed out along with network and disk modules. Windows users can also now manage
registry entries using the new "reg" module.
