===========================
Salt 2014.7.4 Release Notes
===========================

:release: 2015-03-30

Version 2014.7.4 is a bugfix release for :doc:`2014.7.0
</topics/releases/2014.7.0>`.

This is a security release. The security issues fixed have only been present
since 2014.7.0, and only users of the two listed modules are vulnerable. The
following CVEs have been resolved:

- CVE-2015-1838 SaltStack: insecure /tmp file handling in
  salt/modules/serverdensity_device.py

- CVE-2015-1839 SaltStack: insecure /tmp file handling in salt/modules/chef.py

Changes:

- Multi-master minions mode no longer route fileclient operations asymetrically.
  This fixes the source of many multi-master bugs where the minion would
  become unrepsonsive from one or more masters.

- Fix bug wherein network.iface could produce stack traces.

- net.arp will no longer be made available unless arp is installed on the
  system.

- Major performance improvements to Saltnado

- Allow KVM module to operate under KVM itself or VMWare Fusion

- Various fixes to the Windows installation scripts

- Fix issue where the syndic would not correctly propagate loads to the master
  job cache.

- Improve error handling on invalid /etc/network/interfaces file in salt
  networking modules

- Fix bug where a response status was not checked for in fileclient.get_url

- Enable eauth when running salt in batch mode

- Increase timeout in Boto Route53 module

- Fix bugs with Salt's 'tar' module option parsing

- Fix parsing of NTP servers on Windows

- Fix issue with blockdev tuning not reporting changes correctly

- Update to the latest Salt bootstrap script

- Update Linode salt-cloud driver to use either linode-python or
  apache-libcloud

- Fix for s3.query function to return correct headers

- Fix for s3.head returning None for files that exist

- Fix the disable function in win_service module so that the service is
  disabled correctly

- Fix race condition between master and minion when making a directory when
  both daemons are on the same host

- Fix an issue where file.recurse would fail at the root of an svn repo
  when the repo has a mountpoint

- Fix an issue where file.recurse would fail at the root of an hgfs repo
  when the repo has a mountpoint

- Fix an issue where file.recurse would fail at the root of an gitfs repo
  when the repo has a mountpoint

- Add status.master capability for Windows.

- Various fixes to ssh_known_hosts

- Various fixes to states.network bonding for Debian

- The debian_ip.get_interfaces module no longer removes nameservers.

- Better integration between grains.virtual and systemd-detect-virt and
  virt-what

- Fix traceback in sysctl.present state output

- Fix for issue where mount.mounted would fail when superopts were not a part
  of mount.active (extended=True). Also mount.mounted various fixes for Solaris
  and FreeBSD.

- Fix error where datetimes were not correctly safeguarded before being passed
  into msgpack.

- Fix file.replace regressions.  If the pattern is not found, and if dry run is False,
  and if `backup` is False, and if a pre-existing file exists with extension `.bak`,
  then that backup file will be overwritten. This backup behavior is a result of how `fileinput`
  works. Fixing it requires either passing through the file twice (the
  first time only to search for content and set a flag), or rewriting
  `file.replace` so it doesn't use `fileinput`
 
- VCS filreserver fixes/optimizations

- Catch fileserver configuration errors on master start

- Raise errors on invalid gitfs configurations

- set_locale when locale file does not exist (Redhat family)

- Fix to correctly count active devices when created mdadm array with spares

- Fix to correctly target minions in batch mode

- Support ssh:// urls using the gitfs dulwhich backend

- New fileserver runner

- Fix various bugs with argument parsing to the publish module.

- Fix disk.usage for Synology OS

- Fix issue with tags occurring twice with docker.pulled

- Fix incorrect key error in SMTP returner

- Fix condition which would remount loopback filesystems on every state run

- Remove requsites from listens after they are called in the state system

- Make system implementation of service.running aware of legacy service calls

- Fix issue where publish.publish would not handle duplicate responses gracefully.

- Accept Kali Linux for aptpkg salt execution module

- Fix bug where cmd.which could not handle a dirname as an argument

- Fix issue in ps.pgrep where exceptions were thrown on Windows.


Known issues:

- In multimaster mode, a minion may become temporarily unresponsive
  if modules or pillars are refreshed at the same time that one
  or more masters are down. This can be worked around by setting
  'auth_timeout' and 'auth_tries' down to shorter periods.

- There are known issues with batch mode operating on the incorrect number of minions.
  This bug can be patched with the change in `Pull Request #22464`_.

- The `fun`, `state`, and `unless` keywords are missing from the state internals, which
  can cause problems running some states. This bug can be patched with the change in
  `Pull Request #22365`_.

.. _Pull Request #22464: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/22464
.. _Pull Request #22365: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/22365
