==============================================
Salt 2015.2.0 Release Notes - Codename Lithium
==============================================

Beacons
=======

The beacon system allows the minion to hook into system processes and
continually translate external events into the salt event bus. The
primary example of this is the :py:mod:`~salt.beacons.inotify` beacon. This
beacon uses inotify to watch configured files or directories on the minion for
changes, creation, deletion etc.

This allows for the changes to be sent up to the master where the
reactor can respond to changes.

Salt SSH
========

- Additional configuration options and command line flags have been added to
  configure the scan roster on the fly
- Added support for ``state.single`` in ``salt-ssh``
- Added support for ``publish.publish``, ``publish.full_data``, and
  ``publish.runner`` in ``salt-ssh``
- Added support for ``mine.get`` in ``salt-ssh``

Misc Fixes/Additions
====================

- Add ``only_upgrade`` argument to apt-based ``pkg.install`` to only install a
  package version if the package is already installed. (Great for security
  updates!)
- Joyent now requires a ``keyname`` to be specified in the provider
  configuration. This change was necessitated upstream by the 7.0+ API.
- Add ``args`` argument to ``cmd.script_retcode`` to match ``cmd.script`` in
  the :py:mod:`cmd module <salt.cmd.cmdmod>`. (:issue:`21122`)
- Fixed bug where TCP keepalive was not being sent on the defined interval on
  the return port (4506) from minion to master. (:issue: `21465`)
- LocalClient may now optionally raise SaltClientError exceptions. If using
  this class directly, checking for and handling this exception is recommended.
  (:issue: `21501`)

Deprecations
============
- Removed ``parameter`` keyword argument from ``eselect.exec_action`` execution
  module.

- Removed ``runas`` parameter from the following ``pip``` execution module
  functions: ``install``, ``uninstall``, ``freeze``, ``list_``, ``list_upgrades``,
  ``upgrade_available``, ``upgrade``. Please migrate to ``user``.

- Removed ``runas`` parameter from the following ``pip`` state module
  functions: ``installed``, ``removed``, ``uptodate`` . Please migrate to ``user``.

- Removed ``quiet`` option from all functions in ``cmdmod`` execution module.
  Please use ``output_loglevel=quiet`` instead.

- Removed ``parameter`` argument from ``eselect.set_`` state. Please migrate to
  ``module_parameter`` or ``action_parameter``.

- The ``salt_events`` table schema has changed to include an additional field
  called ``master_id`` to distinguish between events flowing into a database
  from multiple masters. If ``event_return`` is enabled in the master config,
  the database schema must first be updated to add the ``master_id`` field.
  This alteration can be accomplished as follows:

    ``ALTER TABLE salt_events ADD master_id VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL;``
