:orphan:

============================================
Salt 2016.3.0 Release Notes - Codename Boron
============================================

Backwards-incompatible Changes
==============================

- The default path for the :conf_master:`extension_modules` master config
  option has been changed.  Prior to this release, the location was a directory
  named ``extmods`` in the Salt cachedir. On most platforms, this would put the
  :conf_master:`extension_modules` directory in ``/var/cache/salt/extmods``.
  It has been moved one directory down, into the master cachedir. On most
  platforms, this is ``/var/cache/salt/master/extmods``. Most users won't have
  to worry about this, but those who have been manually placing custom runners
  into ``/var/cache/salt/extmods/runners``, or ouputters into
  ``/var/cache/salt/extmods/output``, etc. will be affected by this. To
  transition, it is recommended not to simply move the extmods directory into
  ``/var/cache/salt/master``, but to copy the custom modules into the salt
  fileserver under ``salt://_runners``, ``salt://_output``, etc. and sync them
  using the functions in the new :mod:`saltutil runner
  <salt.runners.saltutil>`.


Core Changes
============

- The ``onchanges`` requisite now fires if **any** watched state changes. :issue:`19592`.
- The ``ext_pillar`` functions **must** now accept a minion ID as the first
  argument. This stops the deprecation path started in Salt 0.17.x. Before this
  minion ID first argument was introduced, the minion ID could be retrieved
  accessing ``__opts__['id']`` losing the reference to the master ID initially
  set in opts. This is no longer the case, ``__opts__['id']`` will be kept as
  the master ID.
- Custom types can now be synced to the master using the new :mod:`saltutil
  runner <salt.runners.saltutil>`. Before, these needed to manually be placed
  under the :conf_master:`extension_modules` directory. This allows custom
  modules to easily be synced to the master to make them available when
  compiling Pillar data. Just place custom runners into ``salt://_runners``,
  custom outputters into ``salt://_output``, etc. and use the functions from
  the :mod:`saltutil runner <salt.runners.saltutil>` to sync them.
- The ``client_acl`` configuration options were renamed to ``publisher_acl``.
- Added a new ``--config-dump`` option (:issue:`26639`).
- TCP Transport presence events were updated to work with a NAT (:pull:`30629`).
- A :conf_minion:`minion_pillar_cache` setting was added to save rendered
  pillar data to cachedir for later use when file_client is set to local
  (:pull:`30428`).
- Added the ability for binary data (such as a license key) to be distributed
  via pillar using the :mod:`file.managed <salt.states.file.managed>`
  (:issue:`9569`).
- Scheduled jobs now include ``success`` and ``retcode`` (:issue:`24237`).
- The ``saltversioninfo`` grain was changed from a string to a list to enable
  reading values by index. (:pull:`30082`).
- A :conf_master:`pillar_merge_lists` option was added to enable recursively
  merging pillar lists by aggregating them instead of replacing them
  (:pull:`30062`).
- Grain values reported by Debian 8 (jessie) when lsb-release is installed were
  updated for consistency (:pull:`28649`).
- A new option for minions called master_tries has been added. This specifies
  the number of times a minion should attempt to contact a master to attempt
  a connection. This allows better handling of occasional master downtime in
  a multi-master topology.


External Module Packaging
=========================

Modules may now be packaged via entry-points in setuptools. See
:doc:`external module packaging </topics/tutorials/packaging_modules>` tutorial
for more information.


Cloud Changes
=============

- Refactored the OpenNebula driver and added numerous ``--function`` and
  ``--action`` commands to enhance Salt support for image, template, security group,
  virtual network and virtual machine management in OpenNebula.

- Added execution/state modules to support the deployment of AWS cognito
  identity pools (:pull:`31094`).

- Added ability to set tags and listener policies on a AWS ELB (:pull:`27552`).

Platform Changes
================

- Renamed modules related to OS X. The following module filenames were changed.
  The virtual name remained unchanged.

- **PR** `#30558`_: renamed osxdesktop.py to mac_desktop.py
- **PR** `#30557`_: renamed macports.py to mac_ports.py
- **PR** `#30556`_: renamed darwin_sysctl.py to mac_sysctl.py
- **PR** `#30555`_: renamed brew.py to mac_brew.py
- **PR** `#30552`_: renamed darwin_pkgutil.py to mac_pkgutil.py

.. _`#30558`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/30558
.. _`#30557`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/30557
.. _`#30556`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/30556
.. _`#30555`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/30555
.. _`#30552`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/30552


Proxy Minion Changes
====================

The deprecated config option ``enumerate_proxy_minions`` has been removed.

As mentioned in earlier documentation, the ``add_proxymodule_to_opts``
configuration variable defaults to ``False`` in this release.  This means if you
have proxymodules or other code looking in ``__opts__['proxymodule']`` you
will need to set this variable in your ``/etc/salt/proxy`` file, or
modify your code to use the `__proxy__` injected variable.

The ``__proxyenabled__`` directive now only applies to grains and proxy modules
themselves.  Standard execution modules and state modules are not prevented
from loading for proxy minions.

Support has been added to Salt's loader allowing custom proxymodules
to be placed in ``salt://_proxy``.  Proxy minions that need these modules
will need to be restarted to pick up any changes.  A corresponding utility function,
``saltutil.sync_proxymodules``, has been added to sync these modules to minions.

Enhancements in grains processing have made the ``__proxyenabled__`` directive
somewhat redundant in dynamic grains code.  It is still required, but best
practices for the ``__virtual__`` function in grains files have changed.  It
is now recommended that the ``__virtual__`` functions check to make sure
they are being loaded for the correct proxytype, example below:

.. code-block:: python

    def __virtual__():
        '''
        Only work on proxy
        '''
        try:
            if salt.utils.is_proxy() and \
               __opts__['proxy']['proxytype'] == 'ssh_sample':
                return __virtualname__
        except KeyError:
            pass

        return False

The try/except block above exists because grains are processed very early
in the proxy minion startup process, sometimes earlier than the proxy
key in the ``__opts__`` dictionary is populated.

Grains are loaded so early in startup that no dunder dictionaries are
present, so ``__proxy__``, ``__salt__``, etc. are not available.  Custom
grains located in ``/srv/salt/_grains`` and in the salt install grains
directory can now take a single argument, ``proxy``, that is identical
to ``__proxy__``.  This enables patterns like

.. code-block:: python

   def get_ip(proxy):
       '''
       Ask the remote device what IP it has
       '''
       return {'ip':proxy['proxymodulename.get_ip']()}


Then the grain ``ip`` will contain the result of calling the ``get_ip()`` function
in the proxymodule called ``proxymodulename``.

Proxy modules now benefit from including a function called ``initialized()``.  This
function should return ``True`` if the proxy's ``init()`` function has been successfully
called.  This is needed to make grains processing easier.

Finally, if there is a function called ``grains`` in the proxymodule, it
will be executed on proxy-minion startup and its contents will be merged with
the rest of the proxy's grains.  Since older proxy-minions might have used other
methods to call such a function and add its results to grains, this is config-gated
by a new proxy configuration option called ``proxy_merge_grains_in_module``.  This
defaults to ``False`` in this release.  It will default to True in the release after
next.  The next release is codenamed **Carbon**, the following is **Nitrogen**.

The example proxy minions ``rest_sample`` and ``ssh_sample`` have been updated to
reflect these changes.


Module Changes
==============

- :mod:`file execution module <salt.modules.file>`: ``show_diff`` is deprecated in favor
  of ``show_changes``. (:pull:`30988`)

- :mod:`reg execution module <salt.modules.reg>`:

  - Removed the following deprecated functions from the reg module (:pull:`30956`):

    - read_key
    - set_key
    - create_key
    - delete_key
  - Removed force parameter from reg state module
  - Fixed virtual function in state
  - Improved error information for ``reg.delete_value`` function

- :mod:`jboss7 execution module <salt.modules.jboss7>`: ``deployed`` function was
  decoupled from Artifactory by removing Artifactory-specific functionality.
  Note that the changes in some of the function arguments break existing state
  files, see :issue:`30515` and :pull:`3080` for details.
- :mod:`pkg state module <salt.states.pkg>`: The ``wait`` function was removed,
  the functionality was replaced with the ``onchanges`` requisite (:pull:`30297`).
- :mod:`firewalld state module <salt.states.firewalld>`: A ``permanent`` argument
  was added ``add_port``. Note that ``permanent`` defaults to ``True``, which changes
  previous behavior (:pull:`30275`). A ``bind`` function was also added that allows
  binding zones to interfaces and sources (:pull:`29497`).
- :mod:`journald beacon module <salt.beacons.journald>`: The event string was updated
  to include a tag. Note this this might impact existing reactors based on this beacon.
  (:pull:`30116`).
- :mod:`postgres_privileges state module <salt.states.postgres_privileges>`:
  The default value of the ``prepend`` argument was changed from ``None`` to
  ``public``.
- :mod:`zenoss execution module <salt.modules.zenoss.add_device>`: The
  ``add_device`` function was updated with a default value of ``1000`` for
  ``prod_state`` to match the documentation (:pull:`28924`).
- The etcd execution module, state module, returner module, and util module
  were refactor (:pull:`28599`). This refactor changes error returns for
  several functions (primarily edge cases):

  - get: Used to return '' on key-not-found. Now returns None.
  - set: Used to return '' on issues setting keys. Now returns None.
  - ls: Used to return {path: {}} on key-not-found. Now returns None.
  - Tree: Used to return {} on key-not-found. Now returns None.
- :mod:`smartos_virt execution module <salt.modules.smartos_virt>`: Updated to
  use most of the new smartos_vmadm (:pull:`28284`).

New Features
============

Thorium - Provisional New Reactor
---------------------------------

The 2016.3 release introduces the new Thorium Reactor. This reactor is an
experimental new feature that implements a flow programing interface using
the salt state system as the engine. This means that the Thorium reactor uses
a classic state tree approach to create a reactor that can aggregate event
data from multiple sources and make aggregate decisions about executing
reactions.

This feature is both experimental and provisional, it may be removed and APIs
may be changed. This system should be considered as ambitious as the Salt
State System in that the scope of adding a programmable logic engine of
this scale into the event systems is non trivial.

See :ref:`Thorium Complex Reactor <thorium-reactor>`.

Improved Mac OS Support
-----------------------


Improved Solaris Support
------------------------

A lot of work was done to improve support for SmartOS. This work also
resulted in improvements for Solaris and illumos as SmartOS.

- rewrite of :mod:`vmadm module <salt.modules.smartos_vmadm>` (SmartOS)
- rewrite of :mod:`imgadm module <salt.modules.smartos_imgadm>` (SmartOS)
- deprecation of :mod:`virt module <salt.modules.smartos_virt>` in favor of vmadm (SmartOS)
- implemented :mod:`smartos state <salt.states.smartos>` (SmartOS)
- improved :mod:`zpool module <salt.modules.zpool>` add SmartOS, illumos and Solaris support
- improved :mod:`zfs module <salt.modules.zfs>` add SmartOS, illumos and Solaris support
- implemented :mod:`zpool state <salt.states.zpool>`
- implemented :mod:`zfs state <salt.states.zfs>`
  implemented :mod:`solaris_system <salt.modules.solaris_system>` system module to provide better Solaris support (:pull:`30519`)
- other minor fixes to grains, localmod, ...

Tornado Transport
-----------------


.. important::
    The Tornado Transport wire protocol was changed in 2016.3, making it incompatible with 2015.8 (:pull:`29339`).

Windows DSC Integration (Experiemental)
---------------------------------------

Dimension Data Cloud Support
----------------------------
A SaltStack Cloud driver for `Dimension Data Public Cloud`_, provides the driver functionality to service automation for any of the Dimension 
Data Public Cloud locations:

- Deploy new virtual machines
- List and query virtual machine images
- Destroy and query virtual machines

Documentation of the Dimension Data SaltStack integration is found on `developer.dimensiondata.com`_

.. _`Dimension Data Public Cloud`: https://cloud.dimensiondata.com/
.. _`developer.dimensiondata.com`: https://developer.dimensiondata.com/display/SAL/Getting+started

Minion Blackout
---------------
During a blackout, minions will not execute any remote execution commands,
except for :ref:`saltutil.refresh_pillar
<salt.modules.saltutil.refresh_pillar>`. Blackouts are enabled using a special
pillar key, ``minion_blackout`` set to ``True``.

See :ref:`Minion Blackout <blackout>`.

Splunk Returner
---------------
A Splunk Returner that uses HTTP Event Collector is now available (:pull:`30718`).

SQLCipher Pillar Module
-----------------------
Support was added for retrieving pillar data via queries to SQLCiper databases (:pull:`29782`).

New Modules
===========
The following list contains a link to the new modules added in this release.

Beacons
-------
* :mod:`beacons.adb <salt.beacons.adb>`
* :mod:`beacons.glxinfo <salt.beacons.glxinfo>`
* :mod:`beacons.memusage <salt.beacons.memusage>`
* :mod:`beacons.network_settings <salt.beacons.network_settings>`
* :mod:`beacons.proxy_example <salt.beacons.proxy_example>`
* :mod:`beacons.salt_proxy <salt.beacons.salt_proxy>`

Engines
-------
* :mod:`engines.docker_events <salt.engines.docker_events>`
* :mod:`engines.redis_sentinel <salt.engines.redis_sentinel>`
* :mod:`engines.slack <salt.engines.slack>`
* :mod:`engines.sqs_events <salt.engines.sqs_events>`
* :mod:`engines.thorium <salt.engines.thorium>`

Execution Modules
-----------------
* :mod:`modules.bcache <salt.modules.bcache>`
* :mod:`modules.beacons <salt.modules.beacons>`
* :mod:`modules.boto_cloudtrail <salt.modules.boto_cloudtrail>`
* :mod:`modules.boto_datapipeline <salt.modules.boto_datapipeline>`
* :mod:`modules.boto_iot <salt.modules.boto_iot>`
* :mod:`modules.boto_lambda <salt.modules.boto_lambda>`
* :mod:`modules.boto_s3_bucket <salt.modules.boto_s3_bucket>`
* :mod:`modules.chronos <salt.modules.chronos>`
* :mod:`modules.cytest <salt.modules.cytest>`
* :mod:`modules.dockercompose <salt.modules.dockercompose>`
* :mod:`modules.dsc <salt.modules.dsc>`
* :mod:`modules.ethtool <salt.modules.ethtool>`
* :mod:`modules.github <salt.modules.github>`
* :mod:`modules.infoblox <salt.modules.infoblox>`
* :mod:`modules.iwtools <salt.modules.iwtools>`
* :mod:`modules.jenkins <salt.modules.jenkins>`
* :mod:`modules.linux_ip <salt.modules.linux_ip>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_assistive <salt.modules.mac_assistive>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_brew <salt.modules.mac_brew>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_defaults <salt.modules.mac_defaults>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_desktop <salt.modules.mac_desktop>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_keychain <salt.modules.mac_keychain>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_pkgutil <salt.modules.mac_pkgutil>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_ports <salt.modules.mac_ports>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_power <salt.modules.mac_power>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_service <salt.modules.mac_service>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_shadow <salt.modules.mac_shadow>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_softwareupdate <salt.modules.mac_softwareupdate>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_sysctl <salt.modules.mac_sysctl>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_system <salt.modules.mac_system>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_timezone <salt.modules.mac_timezone>`
* :mod:`modules.mac_xattr <salt.modules.mac_xattr>`
* :mod:`modules.marathon <salt.modules.marathon>`
* :mod:`modules.minion <salt.modules.minion>`
* :mod:`modules.openvswitch <salt.modules.openvswitch>`
* :mod:`modules.opkg <salt.modules.opkg>`
* :mod:`modules.philips_hue <salt.modules.philips_hue>`
* :mod:`modules.proxy <salt.modules.proxy>`
* :mod:`modules.pushbullet <salt.modules.pushbullet>`
* :mod:`modules.restartcheck <salt.modules.restartcheck>`
* :mod:`modules.s6 <salt.modules.s6>`
* :mod:`modules.salt_proxy <salt.modules.salt_proxy>`
* :mod:`modules.ssh_package <salt.modules.ssh_package>`
* :mod:`modules.ssh_service <salt.modules.ssh_service>`
* :mod:`modules.sysfs <salt.modules.sysfs>`
* :mod:`modules.vboxmanage <salt.modules.vboxmanage>`
* :mod:`modules.win_certutil <salt.modules.win_certutil>`
* :mod:`modules.win_dism <salt.modules.win_dism>`
* :mod:`modules.win_dism <salt.modules.win_dism>`
* :mod:`modules.win_license <salt.modules.win_license>`
* :mod:`modules.win_iis <salt.modules.win_iis>`
* :mod:`modules.win_task <salt.modules.win_task>`
* :mod:`modules.zabbix <salt.modules.zabbix>`

Pillar
------
* :mod:`pillar.http_yaml <salt.pillar.http_yaml>`

Proxy
-----
* :mod:`proxy.chronos <salt.proxy.chronos>`
* :mod:`proxy.junos <salt.proxy.junos>`
* :mod:`proxy.marathon <salt.proxy.marathon>`
* :mod:`proxy.phillips_hue <salt.proxy.phillips_hue>`
* :mod:`proxy.ssh_sample <salt.proxy.ssh_sample>`

Roster
------
* :mod:`roster.range <salt.roster.range>`

States
------
* :mod:`states.apache_conf <salt.states.apache_conf>`
* :mod:`states.apache_site <salt.states.apache_site>`
* :mod:`states.boto_cloudtrail <salt.states.boto_cloudtrail>`
* :mod:`states.boto_datapipeline <salt.states.boto_datapipeline>`
* :mod:`states.boto_iot <salt.states.boto_iot>`
* :mod:`states.boto_lamda <salt.states.boto_lamda>`
* :mod:`states.boto_s3_bucket <salt.states.boto_s3_bucket>`
* :mod:`states.chocolatey <salt.states.chocolatey>`
* :mod:`states.chronos_job <salt.states.chronos_job>`
* :mod:`states.firewall <salt.states.firewall>`
* :mod:`states.github <salt.states.github>`
* :mod:`states.gpg <salt.states.gpg>`
* :mod:`states.grafana_dashboard <salt.states.grafana_dashboard>`
* :mod:`states.grafana_datasource <salt.states.grafana_datasource>`
* :mod:`states.infoblox <salt.states.infoblox>`
* :mod:`states.jenkins <salt.states.jenkins>`
* :mod:`states.mac_assistive <salt.states.mac_assistive>`
* :mod:`states.mac_defaults <salt.states.mac_defaults>`
* :mod:`states.mac_keychain <salt.states.mac_keychain>`
* :mod:`states.mac_xattr <salt.states.mac_xattr>`
* :mod:`states.marathon_app <salt.states.marathon_app>`
* :mod:`states.openvswitch_bridge <salt.states.openvswitch_bridge>`
* :mod:`states.openvswitch_port <salt.states.openvswitch_port>`
* :mod:`states.postgres_cluster <salt.states.postgres_cluster>`
* :mod:`states.proxy <salt.states.proxy>`
* :mod:`states.salt_proxy <salt.states.salt_proxy>`
* :mod:`states.virt <salt.states.virt>`
* :mod:`states.win_certutil <salt.states.win_certutil>`
* :mod:`states.win_dism <salt.states.win_dism>`
* :mod:`states.win_license <salt.states.win_license>`
* :mod:`states.zabbix_host <salt.states.zabbix_host>`
* :mod:`states.zabbix_hostgroup <salt.states.zabbix_hostgroup>`
* :mod:`states.zabbix_user <salt.states.zabbix_user>`
* :mod:`states.zabbix_usergroup <salt.states.zabbix_usergroup>`

