============================
Salt 2016.11.4 Release Notes
============================

Version 2016.11.4 is a bugfix release for :ref:`2016.11.0 <release-2016-11-0>`.


AIX Fixes
=========

Added module execution support for user and group


Minion Data Cache Fixes
=======================

Added Memcache booster for the minion data cache.
Memcache is an additional cache layer that keeps a limited amount of data
fetched from the minion data cache for a limited period of time in memory that
makes cache operations faster. It doesn't make much sence for the ``localfs``
cache driver but helps for more complex drivers like ``consul``.
For more details see ``memcache_expire_seconds`` and other ``memcache_*``
options in the master config reverence.

Salt-Cloud Fixes
================

2016.11.0 added support for templating userdata files for the :mod:`ec2
<salt.cloud.clouds.ec2>` driver, using the :conf_master:`renderer` option from
the master config file. However, as the default renderer first evaluates jinja
templating, followed by loading the data as a YAML dictionary, this results in
unpredictable results when userdata files are comprised of non-YAML data (which
they generally are).

2016.11.4 fixes this by only templating the userdata_file when it is explicitly
configured to do so. This is done by adding a new optional parameter to the
cloud profile called ``userdata_template``. This option is used in the same way
as the ``template`` argument in :py:func:`file.managed
<salt.states.file.managed>` states, it is simply set to the desired templating
renderer:

.. code-block:: yaml

    my-ec2-config:
      # Pass userdata to the instance to be created
      userdata_file: /etc/salt/my-userdata-file
      userdata_template: jinja

If no ``userdata_template``  option is set in the cloud profile, then
salt-cloud will check for the presence of the master configuration parameter
:conf_master:`userdata_renderer`. If this is also not set, then no templating
will be performed on the userdata_file.

In addition, the other cloud drivers which support setting a ``userdata_file``
(:mod:`azurearm <salt.cloud.clouds.azurearm>`, :mod:`nova
<salt.cloud.clouds.nova>`, and :mod:`openstack <salt.cloud.clouds.openstack>`)
have had templating support added to bring them to feature parity with the ec2
driver's implementation of the ``userdata_file`` option.
