.. _release-2019-2-0:

===============================================
Salt 2019.2.0 Release Notes - Codename Fluorine
===============================================

Python 2.7 Deprecation
======================

In light of Python 2.7 reaching its End of Life (EOL) on Jan 1st 2020,
Python 2 will be deprecated from SaltStack no earlier than the Sodium
release, that is either the Sodium release or a later release.
This decision is pending further community discussion.

Non-Backward-Compatible Change to YAML Renderer
===============================================

In earlier releases, this was considered valid usage in Python 2, assuming that
``data`` was a list or dictionary containing keys/values which are ``unicode``
types:

.. code-block:: jinja

    /etc/foo.conf:
      file.managed:
        - source: salt://foo.conf.jinja
        - template: jinja
        - context:
            data: {{ data }}

One common use case for this is when using one of Salt's :jinja_ref:`custom
Jinja filters <custom-jinja-filters>` which return lists or dictionaries, such
as the :jinja_ref:`ipv4` filter.

In Python 2, Jinja will render the ``unicode`` string types within the
list/dictionary with the "u" prefix (e.g. ``{u'foo': u'bar'}``). While not
valid YAML, earlier releases would successfully load these values.

As of this release, the above SLS would result in an error message. To allow
for a data structure to be dumped directly into your SLS file, use the `tojson
Jinja filter`_:

.. code-block:: jinja

    /etc/foo.conf:
      file.managed:
        - source: salt://foo.conf.jinja
        - template: jinja
        - context:
            data: {{ data|tojson }}

Another example where the new filter needs to be used is the following state example:

.. code-block:: jinja

    grafana_packages:
      pkg.installed:
      - names: {{ server.pkgs }}

This will fail when pkgs is a list or dictionary. You will need to update the state:

.. code-block:: jinja

    grafana_packages:
      pkg.installed:
      - names: {{ server.pkgs|tojson }}

This test case has also been tested with the ``yaml`` and ``json`` filters successfully.

.. note::
    This filter was added in Jinja 2.9. However, fear not! The 2018.3.3 release
    added a ``tojson`` filter which will be used if this filter is not already
    present, making it available on platforms like RHEL 7 and Ubuntu 14.04
    which provide older versions of Jinja.

.. important::
    The :jinja_ref:`json_encode_dict` and :jinja_ref:`json_encode_list` filters
    do not actually dump the results to JSON. Since ``tojson`` accomplishes
    what those filters were designed to do, they are now deprecated and will be
    removed in the 3000 release. The ``tojson`` filter should be used in all
    cases where :jinja_ref:`json_encode_dict` and :jinja_ref:`json_encode_list`
    would have been used.

.. _`tojson Jinja filter`: http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/templates/#tojson

Ansible Playbook State and Execution Modules
============================================

Along with the including the :py:mod:`ansible modules
<salt.module.ansiblegate>` in the Oxygen release, running playbooks has been
added in 2019.2.0 with the :py:func:`playbooks function
<salt.modules.ansiblegate.playbooks>`.  This also includes an :py:func:`ansible
playbooks state module <salt.states.ansiblegate.playbooks>` which can be used
on a targeted host to run ansible playbooks, or used in an
orchestration state runner.

.. code-block:: yaml

    install nginx:
      ansible.playbooks:
        - name: install.yml
        - git_repo: git://github.com/gtmanfred/playbook.git
        - git_kwargs:
            rev: master

The playbooks modules also includes the ability to specify a git repo to clone
and use, or a specific directory can to used when running the playbook.

Network Automation
==================

Beginning with this release, Salt provides much broader support for a variety
of network operating systems, and features for configuration manipulation or
operational command execution.

NetBox
------

Added in the previous release, 2018.3.0, the capabilities of the
:mod:`netbox <salt.modules.netbox>` Execution Module have been extended, with a
much longer list of available features:

- :mod:`netbox.create_circuit <salt.modules.netbox.create_circuit>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_circuit_provider <salt.modules.netbox.create_circuit_provider>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_circuit_termination <salt.modules.netbox.create_circuit_termination>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_circuit_type <salt.modules.netbox.create_circuit_type>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_device <salt.modules.netbox.create_device>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_device_role <salt.modules.netbox.create_device_role>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_device_type <salt.modules.netbox.create_device_type>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_interface <salt.modules.netbox.create_interface>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_interface_connection <salt.modules.netbox.create_interface_connection>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_inventory_item <salt.modules.netbox.create_inventory_item>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_ipaddress <salt.modules.netbox.create_ipaddress>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_manufacturer <salt.modules.netbox.create_manufacturer>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_platform <salt.modules.netbox.create_platform>`
- :mod:`netbox.create_site <salt.modules.netbox.create_site>`
- :mod:`netbox.delete_interface <salt.modules.netbox.delete_interface>`
- :mod:`netbox.delete_inventory_item <salt.modules.netbox.delete_inventory_item>`
- :mod:`netbox.delete_ipaddress <salt.modules.netbox.delete_ipaddress>`
- :mod:`netbox.get_circuit_provider <salt.modules.netbox.get_circuit_provider>`
- :mod:`netbox.get_interfaces <salt.modules.netbox.get_interfaces>`
- :mod:`netbox.get_ipaddresses <salt.modules.netbox.get_ipaddresses>`
- :mod:`netbox.make_interface_child <salt.modules.netbox.make_interface_child>`
- :mod:`netbox.make_interface_lag <salt.modules.netbox.make_interface_lag>`
- :mod:`netbox.openconfig_interfaces <salt.modules.netbox.openconfig_interfaces>`
- :mod:`netbox.openconfig_lacp <salt.modules.netbox.openconfig_lacp>`
- :mod:`netbox.update_device <salt.modules.netbox.update_device>`
- :mod:`netbox.update_interface <salt.modules.netbox.update_interface>`

Besides this Execution Module, Salt users can load data directly from NetBox
into the device Pillar, via the :mod:`netbox <salt.pillar.netbox>` External
Pillar module.

Netmiko
-------

`Netmiko <https://github.com/ktbyers/netmiko>`_, the multi-vendor library to
simplify Paramiko SSH connections to network devices, is now officially
integrated into Salt. The network community can use it via the
:mod:`netmiko <salt.proxy.netmiko_px>` Proxy Module or directly from any Salt
Minions, passing the connection credentials - see the documentation for the
:mod:`netmiko <salt.modules.netmiko_mod>` Execution Module.

Arista
------

Arista switches can now be managed running under the :mod:`pyeapi
<salt.proxy.arista_pyeapi>` Proxy Module, and execute RPC requests via the
:mod:`pyeapi <salt.modules.arista_pyeapi>` Execution Module.

Cisco Nexus
-----------

While support for SSH-based operations has been added in the release codename
Carbon (2016.11), the new :mod:`nxos_api <salt.proxy.nxos_api>` Proxy Module
and :mod:`nxos_api <salt.modules.nxos_api>` allow management of Cisco Nexus
switches via the NX-API.

It is important to note that these modules don't have third party dependencies,
therefore they can be used straight away from any Salt Minion. This also means
that the user may be able to install the regular Salt Minion on the Nexus
switch directly and manage the network devices like a regular server.

General-purpose Modules
-----------------------

The new :mod:`ciscoconfparse <salt.modules.ciscoconfparse_mod>` Execution Module
can  be used for basic configuration parsing, audit or validation for a variety
of  network platforms having Cisco IOS style configuration (one space
indentation), as well as brace-delimited configuration style.

The :mod:`iosconfig <salt.modules.iosconfig>` can be used for various
configuration manipulation for Cisco IOS style configuration, such as:
:mod:`configuration cleanup <salt.modules.iosconfig.clean>`,
:mod:`tree representation of the config <salt.modules.iosconfig.tree>`, etc.

NAPALM
------

Commit At and Commit Confirmed
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Beginning with this release, NAPALM users are able to execute scheduled commits
(broadly known as "commit at") and "commit confirmed" (revert the configuration
change unless the user confirms by running another command). These features are
available via the ``commit_in``, ``commit_at``, ``revert_in``, or ``revert_at``
arguments for the
:mod:`net.load_config <salt.modules.napalm_network.load_config>` and
:mod:`net.load_template <salt.modules.napalm_network.load_template>` execution
functions, or :mod:`netconfig.managed <salt.states.netconfig.managed>`.

The counterpart execution functions
:mod:`net.confirm_commit <salt.modules.napalm_network.confirm_commit>`, or
:mod:`net.cancel_commit <salt.modules.napalm_network.cancel_commit>`, as well
as the State functions
:mod:`netconfig.commit_cancelled <salt.states.netconfig.commit_cancelled>`, or
:mod:`netconfig.commit_confirmed <salt.states.netconfig.commit_confirmed>` can
be used to confirm or cancel a commit.

Please note that the commit confirmed and commit cancelled functionalities are
available for any platform whether the network devices supports the features
natively or not. However, be cautious and make sure you read and understand the
caveats before using them in production.

Multiple Templates Rendered Simultaneously
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The ``template_name`` argument of the
:mod:`net.load_template <salt.modules.napalm_network.load_template>` Execution
and :mod:`netconfig.managed <salt.states.netconfig.managed>` State function now
supports a list of templates. This is particularly useful when a very large
Jinja template is split into multiple smaller and easier to read templates that
can eventually be reused in other States. For example, the following syntax is
not correct to manage the configuration of NTP and BGP simultaneously, using
two different templates and changing the device configuration through one
single commit:

.. code-block:: yaml

    manage_bgp_and_ntp:
      netconfig.managed:
        - template_name:
            - salt://templates/bgp.jinja
            - salt://templates/ntp.jinja
        - context:
            bpg: {{ pillar.bgp }}
            ntp: {{ pillar.ntp }}

Connection Re-establishment on Demand
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Beginning with this release, any NAPALM command executed when
running under a NAPALM Proxy Minion supports the ``force_reconnect``
magic argument.

Proxy Minions generally establish a connection with the remote network
device at the time of the Minion startup and that connection is going to be
used forever.

If one would need to execute a command on the device but is connecting using
different parameters (due to various causes, e.g., unable to authenticate
the user specified in the Pillar as the authentication system - say
TACACS+ is not available, or the DNS resolver is currently down and would
like to temporarily use the IP address instead, etc.), it implies updating
the Pillar data and restarting the Proxy Minion process restart.
In particular cases like that, you can pass the ``force_reconnect=True``
keyword argument, together with the alternative connection details, to
enforce the command to be executed over a separate connection.

For example, if the usual command is ``salt '*' net.arp``, you can use the
following to connect using a different username instead:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' net.arp username=my-alt-usr force_reconnect=True

The same goes with any of the other configuration arguments required for the
NAPALM connection - see :mod:`NAPALM proxy documentation <salt.proxy.napalm>`.

Configuration Replace Features
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

To replace various configuration chunks, you can use the new
:mod:`net.replace_pattern <salt.modules.napalm_network.replace_pattern>`
execution function, or the
:mod:`netconfig.replace_pattern <salt.states.netconfig.replace_pattern>` State
function. For example, if you want to update your configuration and rename
a BGP policy referenced in many places, you can do so by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' net.replace_pattern OLD-POLICY-CONFIG new-policy-config

Similarly, you can also replace entire configuration blocks using the
:mod:`net.blockreplace <salt.modules.napalm_network.blockreplace>` function.

Configuration Save Features
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The :mod:`net.save_config <salt.modules.napalm_network.save_config>` function
can be used to save the configuration of the managed device into a file. For
the State subsystem, the :mod:`netconfig.saved <salt.states.netconfig.saved>`
function has been added which provides a complete list of facilities when
managing the target file where the configuration of the network device can be
saved.

For example, backup the running configuration of each device under its own
directory tree:

.. code-block:: yaml

    /var/backups/{{ opts.id }}/running.cfg:
      netconfig.saved:
        - source: running
        - makedirs: true

All the new network automation modules mentioned above are directly exposed to
the NAPALM users, without requiring any architectural changes, just eventually
install some requirements:

Junos
^^^^^

The features from the existing :mod:`junos <salt.modules.junos>` Execution
Module are available via the following functions:

- :mod:`napalm.junos_cli <salt.modules.napalm_mod.junos_cli>`: Execute a CLI
  command and return the output as text or Python dictionary.
- :mod:`napalm.junos_rpc <salt.modules.napalm_mod.junos_rpc>`: Execute an RPC
  request on the remote Junos device, and return the result as a Python
  dictionary, easy to digest and manipulate.
- :mod:`napalm.junos_install_os <salt.modules.napalm_mod.junos_install_os>`:
  Install the given image on the device.
- :mod:`napalm.junos_facts <salt.modules.napalm_mod.junos_facts>`: The complete
  list of Junos facts collected by the ``junos-eznc`` underlying library.

.. note::
    To be able to use these features, you muse ensure that you meet the
    requirements for the :mod:`junos <salt.modules.junos>` module. As
    ``junos-eznc`` is already a dependency of NAPALM, you will only have to
    install ``jxmlease``.

Usage examples:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' napalm.junos_cli 'show arp' format=xml
    salt '*' napalm.junos_rpc get-interface-information

Netmiko
^^^^^^^

The features from the newly added :mod:`netmiko <salt.modules.netmiko_mod>`
Execution Module are available as:

- :mod:`napalm.netmiko_commands <salt.modules.napalm_mod.netmiko_commands>`:
  Execute one or more commands to be execute on the remote device, via Netmiko,
  and return the output as a text.
- :mod:`napalm.netmiko_config <salt.modules.napalm_mod.netmiko_config>`: Load
  a list of configuration command on the remote device, via Netmiko. The
  commands can equally be loaded from a local or remote path, and passed
  through Salt's template rendering pipeline (by default using ``Jinja`` as the
  template rendering engine).

Usage examples:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' napalm.netmiko_commands 'show version' 'show interfaces'
    salt '*' napalm.netmiko_config config_file=https://bit.ly/2sgljCB

Arista pyeapi
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For various operations and various extension modules, the following features
have been added to gate functionality from the
:mod:`pyeapi <salt.modules.arista_pyeapi>` module:

- :mod:`napalm.pyeapi_run_commands
  <salt.modules.napalm_mod.pyeapi_run_commands>`: Execute a list of commands on
  the Arista switch, via the ``pyeapi`` library.
- :mod:`napalm.pyeapi_config <salt.modules.napalm_mod.pyeapi_config>`:
  Configure the Arista switch with the specified commands, via the ``pyeapi``
  Python library. Similarly to
  :mod:`napalm.netmiko_config <salt.modules.napalm_mod.netmiko_config>`, you
  can use both local and remote files, with or without templating.

Usage examples:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' napalm.pyeapi_run_commands 'show version' 'show interfaces'
    salt '*' napalm.pyeapi_config config_file=salt://path/to/template.jinja

Cisco NX-API
^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the exact same way as above, the user has absolute control by using the
following primitives to manage Cisco Nexus switches via the NX-API:

- :mod:`napalm.nxos_api_show <salt.modules.napalm_mod.nxos_api_show>`: Execute
  one or more show (non-configuration) commands, and return the output as plain
  text or Python dictionary.
- :mod:`napalm.nxos_api_rpc <salt.modules.napalm_mod.nxos_api_rpc>`: Execute
  arbitrary RPC requests via the Nexus API.
- :mod:`napalm.nxos_api_config <salt.modules.napalm_mod.nxos_api_config>`:
  Configures the Nexus switch with the specified commands, via the NX-API. The
  commands can be loaded from the command line, or a local or remote file,
  eventually rendered using the templating engine of choice (default:
  ``jinja``).

Usage examples:

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' napalm.nxos_api_show 'show bgp sessions' 'show processes' raw_text=False

Ciscoconfparse
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following list of function may be handy when manipulating Cisco IOS or
Junos style configurations:

- :mod:`napalm.config_filter_lines
  <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_filter_lines>`: Return a list of detailed
  matches, for the configuration blocks (parent-child relationship) whose
  parent and children respect the regular expressions provided.
- :mod:`napalm.config_find_lines <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_find_lines>`:
  Return the configuration lines that match the regular expression provided.
- :mod:`napalm.config_lines_w_child <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_lines_w_child>`:
  Return the configuration lines that match a regular expression, having child
  lines matching the child regular expression.
- :mod:`napalm.config_lines_wo_child <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_lines_wo_child>`:
  Return the configuration lines that match a regular expression, that don't
  have child lines matching the child regular expression.

.. note::
    These functions require the ``ciscoconfparse`` Python library to be
    installed.

Usage example (find interfaces that are administratively shut down):

.. code-block:: bash

    salt '*' napalm.config_lines_w_child 'interface' 'shutdown'

IOSConfig
^^^^^^^^^

For Cisco IOS style configuration, the following features have been added to
the :mod:`napalm <salt.modules.napalm_mod>` Execution Module:

- :mod:`napalm.config_tree <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_tree>`: Transform
  Cisco IOS style configuration to structured Python dictionary, using the
  configuration of the interrogated network device.
- :mod:`napalm.config_merge_tree <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_merge_tree>`:
  Return the merge tree of the configuration of the managed network device with
  a different configuration to be merged with (without actually loading any
  changes on the device).
- :mod:`napalm.config_merge_text <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_merge_text>`:
  Return the merge result (as text) of the configuration of the managed network
  device with a different configuration to be merged with.
- :mod:`napalm.config_merge_diff <salt.modules.napalm_mod.config_merge_diff>`:
  Return the merge diff after merging the configuration of the managed network
  device with a different configuration (without actually loading any changes
  on the device).

SCP
^^^

Reusing the already available connection credentials provided for NAPALM, the
following features are now available:

- :mod:`napalm.scp_put <salt.modules.napalm_mod.scp_put>`: Transfer files and
  directories to remote network device.
- :mod:`napalm.scp_get <salt.modules.napalm_mod.scp_get>`: Transfer files and
  directories from remote network device to the localhost of the Minion.

PeeringDB
---------

The :mod:`peeringdb <salt.modules.peeringdb>` Execution Module is useful to
gather information about other networks you can potentially peer with, and
automatically establish BGP sessions, e.g., given just a specific AS number,
the rest of the data (i.e., IP addresses, locations where the remote network is
available, etc.) is retrieved from PeeringDB, and the session configuration is
automated with minimal to no effort (typing the IP addresses manually can be
both tedious and error prone).

New Docker Proxy Minion
=======================

Docker containers can now be treated as actual minions without installing salt
in the container, using the new :py:mod:`docker proxy minion <salt.proxy.docker>`.

This proxy minion uses the :py:mod:`docker executor <salt.executors.docker>` to
pass commands to the docker container using :py:func:`docker.call
<salt.modules.dockermod.call>`.  Any state module calls are passed through the
corresponding function from the :py:mod:`docker <salt.modules.dockermod>`
module.

.. code-block:: yaml

    proxy:
      proxytype: docker
      name: keen_proskuriakova


Terraform Salt-SSH Roster
=========================

You can now dynamically generate a Salt-SSH roster from the terraform resources
defined with `terraform-provider-salt <https://github.com/dmacvicar/terraform-provider-salt>`_.

This allows you to combine both terraform and Salt-SSH to provision and
configure your hosts. See the :py:mod:`terraform roster<salt.roster.terraform>` for
an example on how to setup and use.


Grains Dictionary Passed into Custom Grains
===========================================

Starting in this release, if a custom grains function accepts a variable named
``grains``, the Grains dictionary of the already compiled grains will be passed
in.  Because of the non-deterministic order that grains are rendered in, the
only grains that can be relied upon to be passed in are ``core.py`` grains,
since those are compiled first.

More Precise ``virtual`` Grain
==============================

This release improves the accuracy of the ``virtual`` grain when running Salt in
a nested virtualization environment (e.g. ``systemd-nspawn`` container inside a
VM) and having ``virt-what`` installed.

Until now, the ``virtual`` grain was determined by matching against all output
lines of ``virt-what`` instead of individual items which could lead to not quite
precise results (e.g. reporting ``HyperV`` inside a ``systemd-nspawn`` container
running within a Hyper-V-based VM.

Configurable Module Environment
===============================

Salt modules (states, execution modules, returners, etc.) now can have custom
environment variables applied when running shell commands. This can be
configured by setting a ``system-environment`` key either in Grains or Pillar.
The syntax is as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

    system-environment:
      <type>
        <module>:
          # Namespace for all functions in the module
          _:
            <key>: <value>

          # Namespace only for particular function in the module
          <function>:
            <key>: <value>

- ``<type>`` would be the type of module (i.e. ``states``, ``modules``, etc.).

- ``<module>`` would be the module's name.

  .. note::
      The module name can be either the virtual name (e.g. ``pkg``), or the
      physical name (e.g. ``yumpkg``).

- ``<function>`` would be the function name within that module. To apply
  environment variables to *all* functions in a given module, use an underscore
  (i.e. ``_``) as the function name. For example, to set the same environment
  variable for all package management functions, the following could be used:

  .. code-block:: yaml

      system-environment:
        modules:
          pkg:
            _:
              SOMETHING: for_all

  To set an environment variable in ``pkg.install`` only:

  .. code-block:: yaml

      system-environment:
        modules:
          pkg:
            install:
              LC_ALL: en_GB.UTF-8

  To set the same variable but only for SUSE minions (which use zypper for
  package management):

  .. code-block:: yaml

      system-environment:
        modules:
          zypper:
            install:
              LC_ALL: en_GB.UTF-8

.. note::
    This is not supported throughout Salt; the module must explicitly support
    this feature (though this may change in the future). As of this release,
    the only modules which support this are the following ``pkg`` virtual
    modules:

    - :py:mod:`aptpkg <salt.modules.aptpkg>`
    - :py:mod:`yumpkg <salt.modules.yumpkg>`
    - :py:mod:`zypper <salt.modules.zypper>`

"Virtual Package" Support Dropped for APT
=========================================

In APT, some packages have an associated list of packages which they provide.
This allows one to do things like run ``apt-get install foo`` when the real
package name is ``foo1.0``, and get the right package installed.

Salt has traditionally designated as "virtual packages" those which are
provided by an installed package, but for which there is no real package by
that name installed. Given the above example, if one were to run a
:py:func:`pkg.installed <salt.states.pkg.installed>` state for a package named
``foo``, then :py:func:`pkg.list_pkgs <salt.modules.aptpkg.list_pkgs>` would
show a package version of simply ``1`` for package ``foo``, denoting that it is
a virtual package.

However, while this makes certain aspects of package management convenient,
there are issues with this approach that make relying on "virtual packages"
problematic. For instance, Ubuntu has four different mutually-conflicting
packages for ``nginx``:

- nginx-core_
- nginx-full_
- nginx-light_
- nginx-extras_

All four of these provide ``nginx``. Yet there is an nginx_ package as well,
which has no actual content and merely has dependencies on any one of the above
four packages. If one used ``nginx`` in a :py:func:`pkg.installed
<salt.states.pkg.installed>` state, and none of the above four packages were
installed, then the nginx_ metapackage would be installed, which would pull in
`nginx-core_`.  Later, if ``nginx`` were used in a :py:func:`pkg.removed
<salt.states.pkg.removed>` state, the nginx_ metapackage would be removed,
leaving nginx-core_ installed. The result would be that, since `nginx-core_`
provides `nginx_`, Salt would now see nginx_ as an installed virtual package,
and the :py:func:`pkg.removed <salt.states.pkg.removed>` state would fail.
Moreover, *nginx would not actually have been removed*, since nginx-core_ would
remain installed.

.. _nginx-core: https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/nginx-core
.. _nginx-full: https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/nginx-full
.. _nginx-light: https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/nginx-light
.. _nginx-extras: https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/nginx-extras
.. _nginx: https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/nginx

Starting with this release, Salt will no longer support using "virtual package"
names in ``pkg`` states, and package names will need to be specified using the
proper package name. The :py:func:`pkg.list_repo_pkgs
<salt.modules.aptpkg.list_repo_pkgs>` function can be used to find matching
package names in the repositories, given a package name (or glob):

.. code-block:: bash

    # salt myminion pkg.list_repo_pkgs 'nginx*'
    myminion:
        ----------
        nginx:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-common:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-core:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-core-dbg:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-doc:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-extras:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-extras-dbg:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-full:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-full-dbg:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-light:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1
        nginx-light-dbg:
            - 1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
            - 1.9.15-0ubuntu1

Alternatively, the newly-added :py:func:`pkg.show <salt.modules.aptpkg.show>`
function can be used to get more detailed information about a given package and
help determine what package name is correct:

.. code-block:: bash

    # salt myminion pkg.show 'nginx*' filter=description,provides
    myminion:
        ----------
        nginx:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    small, powerful, scalable web/proxy server
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    small, powerful, scalable web/proxy server
        nginx-common:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    small, powerful, scalable web/proxy server - common files
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    small, powerful, scalable web/proxy server - common files
        nginx-core:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (core version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (core version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
        nginx-core-dbg:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (core version) - debugging symbols
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (core version) - debugging symbols
        nginx-doc:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    small, powerful, scalable web/proxy server - documentation
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    small, powerful, scalable web/proxy server - documentation
        nginx-extras:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (extended version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (extended version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
        nginx-extras-dbg:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (extended version) - debugging symbols
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (extended version) - debugging symbols
        nginx-full:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (standard version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (standard version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
        nginx-full-dbg:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (standard version) - debugging symbols
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (standard version) - debugging symbols
        nginx-light:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (basic version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (basic version)
                Provides:
                    httpd, httpd-cgi, nginx
        nginx-light-dbg:
            ----------
            1.10.3-0ubuntu0.16.04.2:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (basic version) - debugging symbols
            1.9.15-0ubuntu1:
                ----------
                Description:
                    nginx web/proxy server (basic version) - debugging symbols


Minion Startup Events
=====================

When a minion starts up it sends a notification on the event bus with a tag
that looks like this: ``salt/minion/<minion_id>/start``. For historical reasons
the minion also sends a similar event with an event tag like this:
``minion_start``. This duplication can cause a lot of clutter on the event bus
when there are many minions. Set ``enable_legacy_startup_events: False`` in the
minion config to ensure only the ``salt/minion/<minion_id>/start`` events are
sent.

The new :conf_minion:`enable_legacy_startup_events` minion config option
defaults to ``True``, but will be set to default to ``False`` beginning with
the Sodium release of Salt.

The Salt Syndic currently sends an old style ``syndic_start`` event as well. The
syndic respects :conf_minion:`enable_legacy_startup_events` as well.


Failhard changes
================

It is now possible to override a global failhard setting with a state-level
failhard setting. This is most useful in case where global failhard is set to
``True`` and you want the execution not to stop for a specific state that
could fail, by setting the state level failhard to ``False``.
This also allows for the use of ``onfail*``-requisites, which would previously
be ignored when a global failhard was set to ``True``.
This is a deviation from previous behavior, where the global failhard setting
always resulted in an immediate stop whenever any state failed (regardless
of whether the failing state had a failhard setting of its own, or whether
any ``onfail*``-requisites were used).


Pass Through Options to :py:func:`file.serialize <salt.states.file.serialize>` State
====================================================================================

This allows for more granular control over the way in which the dataset is
serialized. See the documentation for the new ``serializer_opts`` and
``deserializer_opts`` options in the :py:func:`file.serialize
<salt.states.file.serialize>` state for more information.


:py:func:`file.patch <salt.sates.file.patch>` State Rewritten
=============================================================

The :py:func:`file.patch <salt.sates.file.patch>` state has been rewritten with
several new features:

- Patch sources can now be remote files instead of only ``salt://`` URLs
- Multi-file patches are now supported
- Patch files can be templated

In addition, it is no longer necessary to specify what the hash of the patched
file should be.

New no_proxy Minion Configuration
=================================

Pass a list of hosts using the ``no_proxy`` minion config option to bypass an HTTP
proxy.

.. note::
    This key does nothing unless proxy_host is configured and it does not support
    any kind of wildcards.

.. code-block:: yaml

    no_proxy: [ '127.0.0.1', 'foo.tld' ]

Changes to :py:mod:`slack <salt.engines.slack>` Engine
======================================================

The output returned to Slack from functions run using this engine is now
formatted using that function's proper outputter. Earlier releases would format
the output in YAML for all functions except for when states were run.

Enhancements to :py:mod:`wtmp <salt.beacons.wtmp>` Beacon
=========================================================

A new key, ``action``, has been added to the events fired by this beacon, which
will contain either the string ``login`` or ``logout``. This will simplify
reactors which use this beacon's data, as it will no longer be necessary to
check the integer value of the ``type`` key to know whether the event is a
login or logout.

Additionally, in the event that your platform has a non-standard ``utmp.h``,
you can now configure which type numbers indicate a login and logout.

See the :py:mod:`wtmp beacon documentation <salt.beacons.wtmp>` for more
information.


Deprecated and Removed Options
==============================

API Removed Arguments
---------------------

Support for :ref:`LocalClient <local-client>`'s ``expr_form`` argument has
been removed. Please use ``tgt_type`` instead. This change was made due to
numerous reports of confusion among community members, since the targeting
method is published to minions as ``tgt_type``, and appears as ``tgt_type``
in the job cache as well.

Those who are using the :ref:`LocalClient <local-client>` (either directly,
or implicitly via a :ref:`netapi module <all-netapi-modules>`) need to update
their code to use ``tgt_type``.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import salt.client
    >>> local = salt.client.LocalClient()
    >>> local.cmd('*', 'cmd.run', ['whoami'], tgt_type='glob')
    {'jerry': 'root'}

Minion Configuration Deprecated Option
--------------------------------------

The :conf_minion:`master_shuffle` configuration option is deprecated as of the
``2019.2.0`` release. Please use the :conf_minion:`random_master` option instead.

Module Removed Options
----------------------

- The :py:mod:`napalm_network <salt.modules.napalm_network>` module has been
  changed as follows:

    - Support for the ``template_path`` has been removed from
      :py:func:`net.load_template <salt.modules.napalm_network.load_template>`
      function. This is because support for NAPALM native templates has been
      dropped.

- The :py:mod:`pip <salt.modules.pip>` module has been changed as follows:

    - Support for the ``no_chown`` option has been removed from
      :py:func:`pip.install <salt.modules.pip.install>` function.

- The :py:mod:`trafficserver <salt.modules.trafficserver>` module has been
  changed as follows:

    - The ``trafficserver.match_var`` function was removed. Please use
      :py:func:`trafficserver.match_metric
      <salt.modules.trafficserver.match_metric>` instead.

    - The ``trafficserver.read_var`` function was removed. Please use
      :py:func:`trafficserver.read_config
      <salt.modules.trafficserver.read_config>` instead.

    - The ``trafficserver.set_var`` function was removed. Please use
      :py:func:`trafficserver.set_config
      <salt.modules.trafficserver.set_config>` instead.

- The ``win_update`` module has been removed. It has been replaced by
  :py:mod:`win_wua <salt.modules.win_wua>`.

- The :py:mod:`win_wua <salt.modules.win_wua>` module has been changed as
  follows:

    - The ``win_wua.download_update`` and ``win_wua.download_updates``
      functions have been removed. Please use :py:func:`win_wua.download
      <salt.modules.win_wua.download>` instead.

    - The ``win_wua.install_update`` and ``win_wua.install_updates``
      functions have been removed. Please use :py:func:`win_wua.install
      <salt.modules.win_wua.install>` instead.

    - The ``win_wua.list_update`` function has been removed. Please use
      functions have been removed. Please use :py:func:`win_wua.get
      <salt.modules.win_wua.get>` instead.

    - The ``win_wua.list_updates`` function has been removed. Please use
      functions have been removed. Please use :py:func:`win_wua.list
      <salt.modules.win_wua.list_>` instead.

Pillar Removed Option
---------------------

- The :py:mod:`vault <salt.pillar.vault>` external pillar has been changed as
  follows:

    - Support for the ``profile`` argument was removed. Any options passed up
      until and following the first ``path=`` are discarded.

Roster Removed Option
---------------------

- The :py:mod:`cache <salt.roster.cache>` roster has been changed as follows:

    - Support for ``roster_order`` as a list or tuple has been removed. As of
      the ``2019.2.0`` release, ``roster_order`` must be a dictionary.

    - The ``roster_order`` option now includes IPv6 in addition to IPv4 for the
      ``private``, ``public``, ``global`` or ``local`` settings. The syntax for
      these settings has changed to ``ipv4-*`` or ``ipv6-*``, respectively.

State Removed Modules and Options
---------------------------------

- The ``docker`` state module has been removed

    - In :ref:`2017.7.0 <release-2017-7-0>`, the states from this module were
      split into four separate state modules:

        - :py:mod:`docker_container <salt.states.docker_container>`

        - :py:mod:`docker_image <salt.states.docker_image>`

        - :py:mod:`docker_volume <salt.states.docker_volume>`

        - :py:mod:`docker_network <salt.states.docker_network>`

    - The ``docker`` module remained, for backward-compatibility, but it has now
      been removed. Please update SLS files to use the new state names:

        - ``docker.running`` => :py:func:`docker_container.running
          <salt.states.docker_container.running>`

        - ``docker.stopped`` => :py:func:`docker_container.stopped
          <salt.states.docker_container.stopped>`

        - ``docker.absent`` => :py:func:`docker_container.absent
          <salt.states.docker_container.absent>`

        - ``docker.network_present`` => :py:func:`docker_network.present
          <salt.states.docker_network.present>`

        - ``docker.network_absent`` => :py:func:`docker_network.absent
          <salt.states.docker_network.absent>`

        - ``docker.image_present`` => :py:func:`docker_image.present
          <salt.states.docker_image.present>`

        - ``docker.image_absent`` => :py:func:`docker_image.absent
          <salt.states.docker_image.absent>`

        - ``docker.volume_present`` => :py:func:`docker_volume.present
          <salt.states.docker_volume.present>`

        - ``docker.volume_absent`` => :py:func:`docker_volume.absent
          <salt.states.docker_volume.absent>`

- The :py:mod:`docker_network <salt.states.docker_network>` state module has
  been changed as follows:

    - The ``driver`` option has been removed from
      :py:func:`docker_network.absent <salt.states.docker_network.absent>`.  It
      had no functionality, as the state simply deletes the specified network
      name if it exists.

- The deprecated ``ref`` option has been removed from the
  :py:func:`git.detached <salt.states.git.detached>` state. Please use ``rev``
  instead.

- The ``k8s`` state module has been removed in favor of the :py:mod:`kubernetes
  <salt.states.kubernetes>` state mdoule. Please update SLS files as follows:

    - In place of ``k8s.label_present``, use
      :py:func:`kubernetes.node_label_present
      <salt.states.kubernetes.node_label_present>`

    - In place of ``k8s.label_absent``, use
      :py:func:`kubernetes.node_label_absent
      <salt.states.kubernetes.node_label_absent>`

    - In place of ``k8s.label_folder_absent``, use
      :py:func:`kubernetes.node_label_folder_absent
      <salt.states.kubernetes.node_label_folder_absent>`

- Support for the ``template_path`` option in the :py:func:`netconfig.managed
  <salt.states.netconfig.managed` state has been removed. This is because
  support for NAPALM native templates has been dropped.

- Support for the ``no_chown`` option in the
  :py:func:`pip.insalled <salt.states.pip.installed>` state has been removed.

- The :py:func:`trafficserver.set_var <salt.states.trafficserver.set_var>`
  state has been removed. Please use :py:func:`trafficserver.config
  <salt.states.trafficserver.config>` instead.

- Support for the ``no_chown`` option in the
  :py:func`virtualenv.managed <salt.states.virtualenv.managed>` function has
  been removed.

- The ``win_update`` state module has been removed. It has been replaced by
  :py:mod:`win_wua <salt.states.win_wua>`.

- Support for virtual packages has been removed from the
  py:mod:`pkg state <salt.states.pkg>`.

Utils Removed Options
---------------------

The ``cloud`` utils module had the following changes:

- Support for the ``cache_nodes_ip`` function in :mod:`salt utils module <salt.utils.cloud>`
  has been removed. The function was incomplete and non-functional.

The ``vault`` utils module had the following changes:

- Support for specifying Vault connection data within a 'profile' has been removed.
  Please see the :mod:`vault execution module <salt.modules.vault>` documentation for
  details on the new configuration schema.

Dependency Deprecations
-----------------------

Salt-Cloud has been updated to use the ``pypsexec`` Python library instead of the
``winexe`` executable. Both ``winexe`` and ``pypsexec`` run remote commands
against Windows OSes. Since ``winexe`` is not packaged for every system, it has
been deprecated in favor of ``pypsexec``.

Salt-Cloud has deprecated the use ``impacket`` in favor of ``smbprotocol``.
This changes was made because ``impacket`` is not compatible with Python 3.

SaltSSH Major Updates
=====================

SaltSSH now works across different major Python versions. Python 2.7 ~ Python 3.x
are now supported transparently. Requirement is, however, that the SaltMaster should
have installed Salt, including all related dependencies for Python 2 and Python 3.
Everything needs to be importable from the respective Python environment.

SaltSSH can bundle up an arbitrary version of Salt. If there would be an old box for
example, running an outdated and unsupported Python 2.6, it is still possible from
a SaltMaster with Python 3.5 or newer to access it. This feature requires an additional
configuration in /etc/salt/master as follows:


.. code-block:: yaml

       ssh_ext_alternatives:
           2016.3:                     # Namespace, can be actually anything.
               py-version: [2, 6]      # Constraint to specific interpreter version
               path: /opt/2016.3/salt  # Main Salt installation
               dependencies:           # List of dependencies and their installation paths
                 jinja2: /opt/jinja2
                 yaml: /opt/yaml
                 tornado: /opt/tornado
                 msgpack: /opt/msgpack
                 certifi: /opt/certifi
                 singledispatch: /opt/singledispatch.py
                 singledispatch_helpers: /opt/singledispatch_helpers.py
                 markupsafe: /opt/markupsafe
                 backports_abc: /opt/backports_abc.py

It is also possible to use several alternative versions of Salt. You can for
instance generate a minimal tarball using runners and include that. But this is
only possible, when such specific Salt version is also available on the Master
machine, although does not need to be directly installed together with the
older Python interpreter.

SaltSSH now support private key's passphrase. You can configure it by:

* `--priv-passwd` for salt-ssh cli
* `salt_priv_passwd` for salt master configure file
* `priv_passwd` for salt roster file


State Module Changes
====================

:py:mod:`salt <salt.states.saltmod>` State Module (used in orchestration)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``test`` option now defaults to None. A value of ``True`` or ``False`` set
here is passed to the state being run and can be used to override a ``test:
True`` option set in the minion's config file. In previous releases the
minion's config option would take precedence and it would be impossible to run
an orchestration on a minion with test mode set to True in the config file.

If a minion is not in permanent test mode due to the config file and the 'test'
argument here is left as None then a value of ``test=True`` on the command-line is
passed correctly to the minion to run an orchestration in test mode. At present
it is not possible to pass ``test=False`` on the command-line to override a
minion in permanent test mode and so the ``test: False`` option must still be set
in the orchestration file.

:py:func:`event.send <salt.states.event.send>` State
----------------------------------------------------

The :py:func:`event.send <salt.states.event.send>` state does not know the
results of the sent event, so returns changed every state run.  It can now be
set to return changed or unchanged.


:py:mod:`influxdb_user.present <salt.states.influxdb_user>` Influxdb User Module State
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``password`` parameter has been changed to ``passwd`` to remove the
name collusion with the influxdb client configuration (``client_kwargs``)
allowing management of users when authentication is enabled on the influxdb
instance

Old behavior:

.. code-block:: yaml

    influxdb_user.present:
      - name: exampleuser
      - password: exampleuserpassword
      - user: admin
      - password: adminpassword

New behavior:

.. code-block:: yaml

    influxdb_user.present:
      - name: exampleuser
      - passwd: exampleuserpassword
      - user: admin
      - password: adminpassword

:conf_minion:`winrepo_cache_expire_min` Windows Package Definitions Caching
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The :conf_minion:`winrepo_cache_expire_min` has been changed from 0 to 1800 (30 minutes)
For example if you run highstate the package definitions are normally updated,
however now if the package definitions are younger than :conf_minion:`winrepo_cache_expire_min`
(30 minutes) the package definitions will not be refreshed, reducing the amount
of time taken to run a 2nd highstate. To get the old behaviour change the value
back to 0 in the minion configuration file. This also effects the behaviour of
other functions which default to refresh.  The ``pkg.refresh_db`` will always
refresh the package definitions.

LDAP External Authentication
============================

freeipa ``groupattribute`` support
----------------------------------

Previously, if Salt was using external authentication against a freeipa LDAP
system it could only search for users via the ``accountattributename`` field.
This release add an additional search using the ``groupattribute`` field as
well.  The original ``accountattributename`` search is done first then the
``groupattribute`` allowing for backward compatibility with previous Salt
releases.

Jinja Include Relative Paths
============================

When a jinja include template name begins with ``./`` or
``../`` then the import will be relative to the importing file.

Prior practices required the following construct:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% from tpldir ~ '/foo' import bar %}

A more "natural" construct is now supported:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% from './foo' import bar %}

Comparatively when importing from a parent directory - prior practice:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% from tpldir ~ '/../foo' import bar %}

New style for including from a parent directory:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% from '../foo' import bar %}

salt-api
========

salt-api Windows support
------------------------

Previously, salt-api was was not supported on the Microsoft Windows platforms. Now it is!
salt-api provides a RESTful interface to a running Salt system. It allows
for viewing minions, runners, and jobs as well as running execution modules
and runners of a running Salt system through a REST API that returns JSON.
See Salt-API_ documentation.
.. _Salt-API: https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/netapi/index.html

Logging Changes
===============

Include Job ID (JID) in Minion and Master Logs
----------------------------------------------

The Job ID (JID) can now be optionally included in both the minion and master logs
by including ``jid`` in either the ``log_fmt_console`` or ``log_fmt_logfile``
configuration option:

.. code-block:: yaml

   log_fmt_console: "[%(levelname)-8s] %(jid)s %(message)s"

The will cause the JID to be included in any log entries that are related to a
particular Salt job.  The JID will be included using the default format,
``[JID: %(jid)s]`` but can be overriden with the ``log_fmt_jid`` configuration item.

.. code-block:: yaml

   log_fmt_jid: "[JID: %(jid)s]"

Security
========

Windows runas changes
---------------------

A password is no longer required with ``runas`` under normal circumstances.
The password option is only needed if the minion process is run under a
restricted (non-administrator) account. In the aforementioned case, a password
is only required when using the ``runas`` argument to run command as a
different user.

New Modules
===========

Execution Modules
-----------------

- :mod:`salt.modules.ciscoconfparse_mod <salt.modules.ciscoconfparse_mod>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.jira <salt.modules.jira_mod>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.google_chat <salt.modules.google_chat>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.iosconfig <salt.modules.iosconfig>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.netmiko <salt.modules.netmiko_mod>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.nxos_api <salt.modules.nxos_api>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.peeringdb <salt.modules.peeringdb>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.purefb <salt.modules.purefb>`
- :mod:`salt.modules.pyeapi <salt.modules.arista_pyeapi>`

Pillar Modules
--------------

- :mod:`netbox <salt.pillar.netbox>`

Proxy Modules
-------------

- :mod:`salt.proxy.netmiko <salt.proxy.netmiko_px>`
- :mod:`salt.proxy.nxos_api <salt.proxy.nxos_api>`
- :mod:`salt.proxy.pyeapi <salt.proxy.arista_pyeapi>`
