========================================
In Progress: Salt 2019.2.2 Release Notes
========================================

Version 2019.2.2 is an **unreleased** bugfix release for :ref:`2019.2.0 <release-2019-2-0>`.
This release is still in progress and has not been released yet.

Python 2.7 Deprecation
======================

In light of Python 2.7 reaching its End of Life (EOL) on Jan 1st 2020,
Python 2 will be deprecated from SaltStack no earlier than the Sodium
release, that is either the Sodium release or a later release.
This decision is pending further community discussion.

Known Issues
============

Proxy minion fails to start. Fix planned in 2019.2.2 release.

* `#54751`_

.. _`#54751`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54751

URIs with IPv6 addresses are broken, preventing master-minion communication in IPv6-only environments. Fix planned in 2019.2.2 release.

* `#54763`_

.. _`#54763`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54763

* `#54762`_

.. _`#54762`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54762

Minion fails to start when it contains below values in minion configuration file. Fix planned in 2019.2.2 release.

.. code-block:: yaml
    auth_tries: 2
    master_tries: -1
    auth_safemode: false
    ping_interval: 5

* `#54776`_

.. _`#54776`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54776

Returners (except for default salt master returner) not loading properly in Py3. Fix planned in 2019.2.2 release.

* `#54731`_

.. _`#54731`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/54731

salt-call state.show_states gives  "Passed invalid arguments" error when a sls defined in top.sls file is missing. Fix planned in 2019.2.2 release.

* `#54758`_

.. _`#54758`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54758

Jinja from import is broken. Fix planned in 2019.2.2 release.

* `#54765`_

.. _`#54765`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54765

Affects only Debian 10. pkgrepo.managed does not work if used with proxy (configured at salt-minion). No fix date available yet.

* `#54771`_

.. _`#54771`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54771

Deprecation warnings for pyzmq. No fix date available yet.

* `#54759`_

.. _`#54759`: https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/54759
