.. _release-3004:

==========================================
Salt 3004 Release Notes - Codename Silicon
==========================================

Salt 3004 is an *unreleased* upcoming feature release.

Changed
=======

State Engine support for ``onfail`` as a requisite now can be
used with multiple requisites. This behavior was previously
broken and is described in detail at https://github.com/saltstack/salt/issues/59026


New Features
============

Transactional System Support (MicroOS)
--------------------------------------

A transactional system, like ``MicroOS``, can present some challenges
when the user decided to manage it via Salt.

MicroOS provide a read-only rootfs and a tool,
``transactional-update``, that takes care of the management of the
system (updating, upgrading, installation or reboot, among others) in
an atomic way.

Atomicity is the main feature of MicroOS, and to guarantee this
property, this model leverages ``snapper``, ``zypper``, ``btrfs`` and
``overlayfs`` to create snapshots that will be updated independently
of the currently running system, and that are activated after the
reboot.  This implies, for example, that some changes made on the
system are not visible until the next reboot, as those changes are
living in a different snapshot of the file system.

Salt 3004 (Silicon) support this type of system via two new modules
(``transactional_update`` and ``rebootmgr``) and a new executor
(``transactional_update``).

The new modules will provide all the low level API for interacting
with transactional systems, like defining a mantenance window where
the system is free to reboot and activate the new state, or install
new software in a new transaction.  It will also provide hight level
of abstractions that will allows us to execute Salt module functions
or applying states inside new transactions.

The execution module will help us to treat the transactional system
transparently (like the traditional ones), using a mechanism that will
delegate some Salt modules execution into the new
``transactional_update`` module.
