{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
\vieww28300\viewh14680\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 WARNING: Python 2 Support will be discontinued in Sodium. Salt will only ship Python 3 installers starting with the Sodium release.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://saltstack.com/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 SaltStack}}
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is extremely fast and scalable systems and configuration management software for predictive orchestration, cloud and data center automation, server provisioning, application deployment and more. \
Documentation for Salt is available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.saltproject.io/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://docs.saltproject.io}} \
This package will install Salt on your Mac. Salt installs into 
\f2\fs22 /opt/salt
\f1\fs24 .\
Sample configuration files (
\f2\fs22 master.dist
\f1\fs24  and 
\f2\fs22 minion.dist
\f1\fs24 ) will be installed to 
\f2\fs22 /etc/salt
\f1\fs24 . Create copies of them without the '
\f2\fs22 .dist
\f1\fs24 ' in the filename and edit as you see fit.\
This Salt package uses a custom-built Python. To install additional Python modules for Salt, use the associated 'pip' binary. For example, if you need LDAP support in Salt you will need the 'python-ldap' module. Install it with 
\f2\fs22 /opt/salt/bin/pip install python-ldap
\f1\fs24 \
Note that some Python modules need a compiler available. Installing Apple's Xcode Command Line Tools should provide the necessary utilities. Alternatively, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://macports.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 MacPorts}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://finkproject.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fink}}, or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://brew.sh/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Homebrew}} may provide what you need.}